DEPARTMENT OF HEALTH AND
HUMAN SERVICES
Food and Drug Administration
21 CFR Parts 882 and 895
[Docket No. FDA–2023–N–3902]
RIN 0910–AI84
Banned Devices; Proposal To Ban
Electrical Stimulation Devices for SelfInjurious or Aggressive Behavior
AGENCY: Food and Drug Administration,
HHS.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: The Food and Drug
Administration (FDA, the Agency, or
we) is proposing to ban electrical
stimulation devices (ESDs) intended for
self-injurious behavior (SIB) or
aggressive behavior (AB). FDA has
determined these devices present an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling. This proposal
follows a court decision vacating a prior
ban and amendment to the Federal
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act clarifying
our authority to ban a device for one or
more intended uses. This action, if
finalized, will mean ESDs for SIB and
AB are adulterated and not legally
marketed.
DATES: Either electronic or written
comments on the proposed rule must be
submitted by May 28, 2024.
ADDRESSES: You may submit comments
as follows. Please note that late,
untimely filed comments will not be
considered. The https://
www.regulations.gov electronic filing
system will accept comments until
11:59 p.m. Eastern Time at the end of
May 28, 2024. Comments received by
mail/hand delivery/courier (for written/
paper submissions) will be considered
timely if they are received on or before
that date.
Electronic Submissions
Submit electronic comments in the
following way:
• Federal eRulemaking Portal:
https://www.regulations.gov. Follow the
instructions for submitting comments.
Comments submitted electronically,
including attachments, to https://
www.regulations.gov will be posted to
the docket unchanged. Because your
comment will be made public, you are
solely responsible for ensuring that your
comment does not include any
confidential information that you or a
third party may not wish to be posted,
such as medical information, your or
anyone else’s Social Security number, or
confidential business information, such
as a manufacturing process. Please note
that if you include your name, contact
information, or other information that
identifies you in the body of your
comments, that information will be
posted on https://www.regulations.gov.
• If you want to submit a comment
with confidential information that you
do not wish to be made available to the
public, submit the comment as a
written/paper submission and in the
manner detailed (see ‘‘Written/Paper
Submissions’’ and ‘‘Instructions’’).
Written/Paper Submissions
Submit written/paper submissions as
follows:
• Mail/Hand Delivery/Courier (for
written/paper submissions): Dockets
Management Staff (HFA–305), Food and
Drug Administration, 5630 Fishers
Lane, Rm. 1061, Rockville, MD 20852.
• For written/paper comments
submitted to the Dockets Management
Staff, FDA will post your comment, as
well as any attachments, except for
information submitted, marked and
identified, as confidential, if submitted
as detailed in ‘‘Instructions.’’
Instructions: All submissions received
must include the Docket No. FDA–
2023–N–3902 for ‘‘Banned Devices;
Proposal to Ban Electrical Stimulation
Devices for Self-Injurious or Aggressive
Behavior.’’ Received comments, those
filed in a timely manner (see
ADDRESSES), will be placed in the docket
and, except for those submitted as
‘‘Confidential Submissions,’’ publicly
viewable at https://www.regulations.gov
or at the Dockets Management Staff
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday
through Friday, 240–402–7500.
• Confidential Submissions—To
submit a comment with confidential
information that you do not wish to be
made publicly available, submit your
comments only as a written/paper
submission. You should submit two
copies total. One copy will include the
information you claim to be confidential
with a heading or cover note that states
‘‘THIS DOCUMENT CONTAINS
CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.’’ The
Agency will review this copy, including
the claimed confidential information, in
its consideration of comments. The
second copy, which will have the
claimed confidential information
redacted/blacked out, will be available
for public viewing and posted on
https://www.regulations.gov. Submit
both copies to the Dockets Management
Staff. If you do not wish your name and
contact information to be made publicly
available, you can provide this
information on the cover sheet and not
in the body of your comments and you
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20883
must identify this information as
‘‘confidential.’’ Any information marked
as ‘‘confidential’’ will not be disclosed
except in accordance with 21 CFR 10.20
and other applicable disclosure law. For
more information about FDA’s posting
of comments to public dockets, see 80
FR 56469, September 18, 2015, or access
the information at: https://
www.govinfo.gov/content/pkg/FR-2015-
09-18/pdf/2015-23389.pdf.
Docket: For access to the docket to
read background documents, the plain
language summary of the proposed rule
of not more than 100 words as required
by the ‘‘Providing Accountability
Through Transparency Act,’’ or the
electronic and written/paper comments
received, go to https://
www.regulations.gov and insert the
docket number, found in brackets in the
heading of this document, into the
‘‘Search’’ box and follow the prompts
and/or go to the Dockets Management
Staff, 5630 Fishers Lane, Rm. 1061,
Rockville, MD 20852, 240–402–7500.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Rebecca Nipper, Center for Devices and
Radiological Health, Food and Drug
Administration, 10903 New Hampshire
Ave., Bldg. 66, Rm. 1540, Silver Spring,
MD 20993–0002, 301–796–6527,
Rebecca.Nipper@fda.hhs.gov.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Table of Contents
I. Executive Summary
A. Purpose of the Proposed Rule
B. Summary of the Major Provisions of the
Proposed Rule
C. Legal Authority
D. Costs and Benefits
II. Table of Abbreviations/Commonly Used
Acronyms in This Document
III. Background
A. Introduction
B. Need for the Regulation
C. FDA’s Current Regulatory Framework
D. History of the Rulemaking
IV. Legal Authority
V. Evaluation and Discussion of Data and
Information
A. Risks of ESDs for SIB or AB
B. Effects of ESDs for SIB or AB
C. State of the Art for Treating SIB or AB
D. Labeling and Correcting or Eliminating
Substantial and Unreasonable Risks
VI. Description of the Proposed Rule
A. Applicability (Proposed § 895.105)
B. Proposed Conforming Amendment
(§ 882.5235)
VII. Proposed Effective and Compliance
Dates
VIII. Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts
A. Introduction
B. Summary of Benefits, Costs, and
Transfers
IX. Analysis of Environmental Impact
X. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
XI. Federalism
XII. Consultation and Coordination With
Indian Tribal Governments
XIII. References
I. Executive Summary
A. Purpose of the Proposed Rule
FDA is proposing to ban ESDs
intended for self-injurious behavior
(SIB) or aggressive behavior (AB)
pursuant to the Agency’s authority
under the Federal Food, Drug, and
Cosmetic Act (FD&C Act) after
determining that the devices present an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling. FDA
previously issued a final rule in 2020
banning these devices (2020 Final Rule)
(85 FR 13312, March 6, 2020), which
was vacated by the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the District of Columbia
Circuit (D.C. Circuit) on July 6, 2021.
The D.C. Circuit opined that FDA’s
authority to ban devices intended for
human use under the FD&C Act, as it
existed at the time, did not permit FDA
to ban a device for some (but not all) of
its intended uses. Following the D.C.
Circuit’s decision, Congress amended
the FD&C Act to expressly state that
FDA’s authority to ban a device
includes the authority to ban some
intended uses of a device, even if the
Agency does not seek to ban it for all
intended uses. The amendment to the
FD&C Act thereby authorizes FDA to
issue a ban that applies to specific
intended uses, such as the previous ban
on ESDs for self-injurious and
aggressive behavior. This proposed rule,
if finalized, would reestablish the ban
now that it is clear that FDA has the
authority to do so.
ESDs are aversive conditioning
devices that apply a noxious electrical
stimulus (a shock) to a person’s skin to
condition behavior to reduce or cease
SIB and AB. SIB and AB frequently
manifest in the same individual, and
people with intellectual or
developmental disabilities exhibit these
behaviors at disproportionately high
rates. Notably, some people with
intellectual or developmental
disabilities who exhibit SIB and AB
have difficulty communicating and
cannot make their own treatment
decisions because of such disabilities,
meaning they are part of a vulnerable
population.
In issuing the 2020 Final Rule, FDA
determined that the medical literature
shows that ESDs for SIB or AB pose a
number of psychological harms
including depression, post-traumatic
stress disorder (PTSD), anxiety, fear,
panic, substitution of other negative
behaviors, worsening of underlying
symptoms, and learned helplessness
(becoming unable or unwilling to
respond in any way to the ESD); and the
devices present the physical risks of
pain, skin burns, and tissue damage. We
also found that other sources, such as
experts in the field, State agencies that
regulate ESD use, and records from the
only facility that has recently
manufactured and is currently using
ESDs for SIB or AB, indicate that ESDs
pose additional risks such as suicidality,
chronic stress, acute stress disorder,
neuropathy, withdrawal, nightmares,
flashbacks of panic and rage,
hypervigilance, insensitivity to fatigue
or pain, changes in sleep patterns, loss
of interest, difficulty concentrating, and
injuries from falling. We also
determined that state-of-the-art
treatments for this patient population
have evolved away from ones that
include ESD use and toward various
positive behavioral treatments,
sometimes combined with
pharmacological treatments. Although
the available data and information
suggest that some individuals subject to
ESDs exhibit an immediate reduction or
cessation of the targeted behavior, the
available evidence has not established a
durable long-term conditioning effect or
an overall favorable benefit-risk profile
for ESDs for SIB and AB.
For this proposed rule, FDA has
determined that there have been no
material changes regarding these topics
in the available literature that impact
our findings and assessments in the
2020 Final Rule. Accordingly, FDA has
determined on the basis of all available
data and information that ESDs for SIB
or AB present an unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury and
that such risk cannot be corrected or
eliminated by labeling or by a change in
labeling. FDA is issuing this proposed
rule to give notice of FDA’s
determination and give interested
persons an opportunity to comment on
the determination and FDA’s proposal
to ban ESDs for SIB and AB. All
references to section numbers are
references to section numbers in this
proposed rule unless otherwise
specified.
B. Summary of the Major Provisions of
the Proposed Rule
We are proposing to amend part 895
(21 CFR part 895) to designate ESDs for
SIB or AB as banned devices. If this
proposed rule is finalized as proposed,
the ban would include only aversive
conditioning devices intended to apply
a noxious electrical stimulus to a
person’s skin to reduce or cease
aggressive or self-injurious behavior.
The proposed ban would apply to
devices already in commercial
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20884 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
1On September 7, 2023, the Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts considered the narrow
question of whether the probate judge abused her
discretion in making that finding based upon the
evidence before her at the time of that decision (all
of which was from 2016 and earlier), and concluded
that she had not. See Judge Rotenberg Educational
Center, Inc. v. Commissioner of the Department of
Developmental Services, 492 Mass. 772 (September
7, 2023).
distribution and devices already in use
by the ultimate (end) user, as well as
devices to be sold or commercially
distributed in the future. A banned
device is an adulterated device, subject
to enforcement action. Additionally, a
device that is banned for one or more
intended uses is not legally marketed
within the meaning of section 1006 of
the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C. 396) when
intended for such use or uses. The ban
would not, however, prevent further
study of such devices pursuant to an
investigational device exemption if the
requirements for such an exemption are
met. We also are proposing conforming
edits to 21 CFR part 882 to clarify that
ESDs are banned when used to reduce
or cease SIB or AB.
C. Legal Authority
We are proposing to issue this rule
pursuant to FDA’s authority to ban
devices intended for human use, as
recently amended by Congress. We also
are proposing to issue this rule under
the authority to issue regulations for the
efficient enforcement of the FD&C Act.
D. Costs and Benefits
This proposed rule, if finalized,
would reestablish the ban of ESDs for
SIB or AB. FDA has determined that
these devices present an unreasonable
and substantial risk of illness or injury
that cannot be corrected or eliminated
by labeling or a change in labeling. The
proposed rule, if finalized, would apply
to both new devices and devices already
in distribution and use. Unquantified
benefits would include reduction in
physical and psychological adverse
effects from using ESDs on individuals,
as well as benefits to society in terms of
protecting vulnerable populations. We
quantify costs for the case in which the
affected individuals might move to
another facility and costs to the affected
entities, who use the device on such
individuals, to read and understand the
rule. We estimate that the annualized
costs over 10 years would range from
$0.00 million to $9.17 million with a
primary estimate of $4.59 million at
both a 7 percent and a 3 percent
discount rate.
II. Table of Abbreviations/Commonly
Used Acronyms in This Document
Abbreviation/
acronym What it means
AB .................... Aggressive Behavior.
ABA ................. Applied Behavior Analysis.
ABAI ................ Association for Behavior Analysis
International.
AE .................... Adverse Event.
DBT ................. Dialectical Behavioral Therapy.
EA .................... Environmental Assessment.
ESD ................. Electrical Stimulation Device.
FA .................... Analogue Functional Analysis.
Abbreviation/
acronym What it means
FDORA ............ Food and Drug Omnibus Reform
Act of 2022.
FONSI ............. Finding of No Significant Impact.
FD&C Act ........ Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic
Act.
GED ................. Graduated Electronic Decelerator.
mA ................... Milliampere.
MSW ................ Municipal Solid Waste.
PBS ................. Positive Behavioral Support.
PTSD ............... Post-traumatic Stress Disorder.
SIB ................... Self-Injurious Behavior.
III. Background
FDA is proposing to ban certain
devices that apply a noxious electrical
stimulus to attempt to reduce or stop
undesirable, injurious behaviors
frequently manifested by vulnerable
people. Specifically, this rulemaking
would ban ESDs for SIB or AB because
the devices present an unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury that
cannot be corrected or eliminated by
labeling or a change in labeling. This is
the second ban on these devices we are
undertaking to protect and promote the
public health. As we will explain in
more detail, the U.S. Court of Appeals
for the District of Columbia Circuit (D.C.
Circuit) vacated the first ban.
A. Introduction
ESDs for SIB or AB give people an
often-painful electric shock to try to
make them stop behaving in ways that
are harmful and/or dangerous and that
are often related to other underlying
intellectual or developmental
disabilities. More specifically, ESDs are
a type of aversive conditioning device
that apply a noxious electrical stimulus
(the shock) to a person’s skin in an
attempt to reduce or cease self-injurious
or aggressive behaviors. SIB commonly
includes head-banging, hand-biting,
excessive scratching, and picking of the
skin. However, SIB can be more extreme
and result in bleeding; broken, even
protruding bones; blindness from eyegouging or poking; other permanent
tissue damage; or injuries from
swallowing dangerous objects or
substances. AB can involve repeated
physical assaults and can be a danger to
the individual, others, or property. In
this proposed rule, like much of the
scientific literature, we discuss SIB and
AB in tandem and use the phrase ‘‘SIB
or AB’’ to refer to SIB, AB, or both. A
more detailed discussion of SIB and AB
and intellectual or developmental
disabilities as they relate to individuals
with SIB or AB can be found in section
I.B of the previous proposed rule to ban
these devices (2016 Proposed Rule) (81
FR 24386 at 24389).
ESDs that are subject to this proposed
ban are intended to reduce SIB or AB
according to the principle of aversive
conditioning. Aversive conditioning
pairs a noxious stimulus (such as, here,
a noxious electric shock delivered to an
individual’s skin) with a target behavior;
the goal is that the individual eventually
associates the noxious stimulus with the
behavior. Pairing a target behavior with
shocks from an ESD is intended to affect
behavior in two ways: by interrupting
the target behavior as an immediate
response to the stimulus—for example,
in response to pain—and, over time,
through a conditioned reduction in the
target behavior if the person learns to
associate the shock with the target
behavior (and can learn to control the
behavior). Associating the unwanted
behavior with the shock is intended to
decrease the frequency of the behavior
or stop it altogether.
However, as explained here, ESDs
pose a number of serious risks and have
not been shown to be effective, and
modern treatments for SIB or AB have
been generally successful without
involving the use of ESDs. State-of-theart treatments instead include
conducting a functional behavioral
assessment to determine the causes and
triggers of self-injury or aggression, then
using that information to design a plan
with supportive approaches, consisting
of multiple elements, to modify the
behavior. In some cases,
pharmacotherapy is an appropriate
element of a treatment plan, depending
on the specific patient. These
approaches have generally been
successful, even for some of the most
difficult cases. The use of ESDs was
mostly abandoned decades ago, in part
because the shocks can be painful or
very painful for the recipients. Only one
facility in the United States still applies
these devices to individuals.
Although in 2018 a Massachusetts
court found, for the purpose of
considering whether to lift a consent
decree, that there was no professional
consensus as to whether ESDs are part
of standard of care for treating
individuals with intellectual and
developmental disabilities,1 the
professional consensus regarding the
accepted standard of care and such use
of ESDs is not an issue in this
rulemaking (see discussion in the 2020
Final Rule, 85 FR 13312 at 13314
through 13315). Rather, to ban a device
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20885
under section 516 of the FD&C Act (21
U.S.C. 360f), FDA must determine the
device presents an ‘‘unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury.’’ In
making this determination, FDA
analyzes whether the risks the device
poses to individuals are important,
material, or significant in relation to its
benefits to the public health, and FDA
compares those risks and benefits to the
risks and benefits posed by alternative
treatments being used in current
medical practice (which relates to what
FDA refers to as ‘‘the state of the art’’)
(85 FR 13312 at 13315; 81 FR 24386 at
24388). The purpose of considering the
alternatives used in current medical
practice to treat a particular patient
population is to assess and compare the
risks and benefits of those alternatives
to the risks and benefits of the device
that is the subject of the ban, not to
determine whether the device that is the
subject of the ban is part of the standard
of care or state of the art. For these
reasons, as stated in the 2020 Final
Rule, whether punishment, contingent
shock, or ESDs are within the standard
of care or state of the art is not an issue
in this rulemaking (85 FR 13312 at
13341). In sum, the court’s decision has
no legal or scientific bearing on this
proposed ban.
B. Need for the Regulation
This rulemaking would protect and
promote the public health by banning
ESDs for SIB or AB, which would
prevent this patient population from
being subjected to a device that poses a
substantial and unreasonable risk of
illness or injury. As we explained in the
previous rulemaking to ban ESDs for
SIB and AB, people who manifest SIB
or AB often have intellectual and
developmental disabilities including,
but not limited to, autism spectrum
disorder, Down syndrome, or Tourette
syndrome, as well as other cognitive or
psychiatric disorders and severe
intellectual impairment (including a
broad range of intellectual measures)
(see, e.g., 81 FR 24386 at 24389).
Notably, some people with such
intellectual and developmental
disabilities may have difficulty
communicating and may not be able to
make their own treatment decisions
because of such disabilities (see, e.g., 85
FR 13312 at 13329). This, among other
reasons, means that many people who
exhibit SIB or AB constitute a
vulnerable population. For people who
manifest SIB or AB, ESDs intended for
those conditions present a substantial
and unreasonable risk of illness or
injury that cannot be corrected or
eliminated by labeling or a change in
labeling. As such, a ban on these
devices for these intended uses is
warranted.
As discussed in section IV below,
section 516(a) of the FD&C Act
authorizes FDA to ban a device for one
or more intended uses, by regulation, if
we find, on the basis of all available
data and information, that such a device
presents substantial deception or an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury. Accordingly, based on
the serious risks posed by ESDs for SIB
or AB, the inadequacy of data to support
their effectiveness, and the positive
benefit-risk profiles of the state-of-theart alternatives for the treatment of SIB
or AB, FDA has determined that ESDs
present an unreasonable and substantial
risk of illness or injury that cannot be
corrected or eliminated by labeling. The
proposed rule would apply to devices
already in distribution and use, as well
as to future sale and distribution of
these devices. The purpose of this
notice is to seek comments on FDA’s
proposal to ban ESDs used for SIB or AB
and comments on any other associated
issues. Section V of this document
discusses the information and data that
support these proposed findings.
C. FDA’s Current Regulatory Framework
The FD&C Act, as amended by the
Medical Device Amendments of 1976
(1976 Amendments) (Pub. L. 94–295),
establishes a comprehensive system for
the regulation of medical devices
intended for human use. Section 513 of
the FD&C Act establishes three
categories (classes) of devices, reflecting
the regulatory controls needed to
provide reasonable assurance of their
safety and effectiveness: class I (general
controls), class II (special controls), and
class III (premarket approval) (see 21
U.S.C. 360c).
In 1979, FDA classified aversive
conditioning devices as class II (see
§ 882.5235 (21 CFR 882.5235)), which
was consistent with the
recommendation of the Neurological
Device Classification Panel in 1978.
Class II devices are those devices for
which general controls by themselves
are insufficient to provide reasonable
assurance of safety and effectiveness,
but for which there is sufficient
information to establish special controls
to provide such assurance, including the
promulgation of performance standards,
postmarket surveillance, patient
registries, development and
dissemination of guidelines,
recommendations, and other
appropriate actions the Agency deems
necessary to provide such assurance
(section 513(a)(1)(B) of the FD&C Act).
Aversive conditioning devices, as a
device type, administer an electric
shock or another noxious stimulus to a
patient to modify undesirable
behavioral characteristics (see
§ 882.5235). Thus, ESDs intended for
SIB and AB, which administer shocks to
modify target behaviors, are within the
aversive conditioning device
classification regulation. As discussed
in more detail in section I.D. of the
previous proposed rule (81 FR 24386 at
24391), in the late 1970s, FDA and the
panelists of the Neurological Device
Classification Panel believed that
performance standards could adequately
assure the safety and effectiveness of
aversives and proposed a classification
accordingly. We received no comments
from the public on the proposed rule,
and we issued the final rule classifying
aversives as proposed at § 882.5235 (44
FR 51726 at 51765, September 4, 1979).
As we explained during the previous
rulemaking to ban ESDs for SIB and AB,
and as remains true, FDA now has a
better understanding of the risks and
benefits presented by these devices than
we did 44 years ago when these devices
were classified. As summarized in
section III.B and explained more fully in
section V.E. of the 2020 Final Rule, the
state of the art for the treatment of SIB
and AB has progressed significantly
over that time period (85 FR 13312 at
13337 through 13344). The development
of the scientific literature and
treatments for these conditions only
underscores that the risk of illness or
injury from the use of ESDs for SIB and
AB is unreasonable and substantial.
D. History of the Rulemaking
FDA previously banned ESDs for SIB
and AB in a final rule issued on March
6, 2020, pursuant to the Agency’s
authority under section 516 of the FD&C
Act (85 FR 13312 at 13354).
Specifically, section 516 of the FD&C
Act provides that FDA may ban a device
intended for human use if the Agency
determines that the device presents
substantial deception or an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling or change in
labeling. Leading up to the final ban,
FDA held a public meeting of the
Neurological Devices Panel of the
Medical Devices Advisory Committee
on April 24, 2014 (see 79 FR 17155,
March 27, 2014) (Ref. 1), issued a
proposed ban in the Federal Register of
April 25, 2016, and considered
comments on the proposal from
interested stakeholders (81 FR 24386).
These activities garnered significant
interest, and FDA received and
reviewed voluminous information to
develop the final rule banning ESDs for
SIB and AB.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20886 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
FDA issued the 2020 ban because we
determined, based on all available
information and data at that time, that
ESDs for SIB or AB present an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling or a change in
labeling. FDA found the weight of the
evidence indicates that ESDs for SIB or
AB present a number of psychological
and physical risks. We determined the
evidence does not establish that ESDs
improve the underlying causative
disorder or effectively condition
individuals to achieve durable
reduction of SIB or AB for a clinically
meaningful period of time. FDA also
found the weight of the evidence
indicates that the state-of-the-art
treatment for individuals with SIB or
AB relies on multielement positive
interventions, for example, paradigms
such as positive behavior support (PBS)
or dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT),
sometimes in conjunction with
pharmacological treatments (85 FR
13312 at 13315 and 13337). Even in
cases in which behavioral modification
plans include punishment techniques,
the techniques are significantly less
intrusive than ESDs and do not inflict
pain; for example, they include
timeouts.
Following the publication of the 2020
ban, the sole manufacturer and only
facility to use ESDs for SIB and AB, The
Judge Rotenberg Educational Center,
Inc. (JRC), challenged in court FDA’s
authority to issue the 2020 ban. On July
6, 2021, the D.C. Circuit vacated the
2020 ban. See Judge Rotenberg
Educational Center, Inc. v. FDA, 3 F.4th
390 (D.C. Cir. 2021). The court
interpreted section 516 of the FD&C Act,
as it existed at the time, and section
1006 of the FD&C Act, as not permitting
FDA to ban devices for specific
intended uses, in that instance ESDs for
SIB or AB, without banning the device
for all intended uses.
Following the court’s decision,
Congress enacted the Food and Drug
Omnibus Reform Act of 2022 (FDORA)
(Pub. L. 117–328). FDORA amended
section 516(a) of the FD&C Act to
expressly state that FDA’s authority to
ban a device intended for human use
includes the authority to ban a device
for one or more intended uses, and that
a device banned for one or more
intended uses is not a legally marketed
device under section 1006 of the FD&C
Act. As amended, the statute is clear
that FDA may issue a ban such as the
previous ban on ESDs for SIB or AB,
which applies to one or more specific
intended uses. After reviewing
publications and other information that
have become known to the Agency in
the brief interim between the issuance
of the previous ban in 2020 and now,
and determining that it does not change
our conclusion that ESDs for SIB or AB
present an unreasonable and substantial
risk of illness or injury that cannot be
corrected or eliminated by labeling or a
change in labeling, FDA is proposing to
ban ESDs intended for SIB or AB under
section 516 of the FD&C Act, as
amended.
IV. Legal Authority
Under section 516 of the FD&C Act,
FDA may ban a device by regulation if
we find, on the basis of all available
data and information, that such a device
with the relevant intended use(s)
presents substantial deception or an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling or change in
labeling (see 21 U.S.C. 360f(a)(1) and
(2), as amended by section 3306 of
FDORA).
Section 3306 of FDORA expressly
provides that FDA has the authority to
ban a device for one or more intended
uses and that FDA’s authority under
section 516 of the FD&C Act is not
limited only to bans of a device for all
of its intended uses. The legislative
history reinforces that section 516 of the
FD&C Act, as amended, authorizes FDA
to ban a device regardless of whether or
not the ban includes other devices that
are technologically similar but have
different intended uses (see H. Rept.
117–348 at 65). The regulatory status of
a device has long depended on its
intended use(s), even before the
enactment of the 1976 Amendments (see
id.). A product’s status as a device
regulated by FDA, along with its
classification, premarket pathway,
labeling, and other requirements all
‘‘very much depend on its intended
use’’ (id. at 65–66). The amendment to
section 516 of the FD&C Act makes clear
that the same principle applies to FDA’s
banning authority, permitting FDA to
ban certain intended use(s) of a type of
technology that meet the standard to
ban devices, while not banning others
that do not (see id. at 66).
A banned device, as defined in part
by its intended use(s), is adulterated
under section 501(g) of the FD&C Act
(21 U.S.C. 351(g)), except to the extent
it is being studied pursuant to an
investigational device exemption under
section 520(g) of the FD&C Act (21
U.S.C. 360j(g)). The FD&C Act defines
various prohibited acts respecting
adulterated devices (see 21 U.S.C. 331).
This proposed rule is also issued
under section 701(a) of the FD&C Act,
which provides FDA authority to issue
regulations for the efficient enforcement
of the FD&C Act (see 21 U.S.C. 371(a)).
This rule, if finalized, would enable
FDA to efficiently enforce the FD&C
Act.
Part 895 sets forth the regulations that
apply to banning devices under section
516 of the FD&C Act. Consistent with
those regulations (and other applicable
legal provisions), we are proposing
findings, based on all available
information and data, that ESDs for SIB
or AB present a substantial and
unreasonable risk of illness or injury.
In determining whether a risk of
illness or injury is ‘‘substantial,’’ FDA
considers whether the risk posed by the
continued marketing of the device, or
continued marketing of the device as
presently labeled, is important, material,
or significant in relation to the benefit
to the public health from its continued
marketing (see § 895.21(a)(1) (21 CFR
895.21(a)(1))).
Although FDA’s device banning
regulations do not define ‘‘unreasonable
risk,’’ we explained in the preamble to
the final rule establishing part 895 that,
with respect to ‘‘unreasonable risk,’’ we
will conduct a careful analysis of risks
associated with the use of the device
relative to the state of the art and the
potential hazard to patients and users
(44 FR 29214 at 29215, May 18, 1979).
The state of the art with respect to this
rule is the state of current technical and
scientific knowledge and medical
practice with regard to the treatment of
patients exhibiting self-injurious and
aggressive behavior.
Thus, in determining whether a
device presents an ‘‘unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury’’ for
one or more intended uses, FDA
analyzes the risks and the benefits the
device poses to individuals when used
for such intended use or uses,
comparing those risks and benefits to
the risks and benefits posed by
alternative treatments being used in
current medical practice. Actual proof
of illness or injury is not required; FDA
need only find that a device presents the
requisite degree of risk on the basis of
all available data and information (H.
Rept. 94–853 at 19; 44 FR 29214 at
29215).
If FDA determines that the risk can be
corrected through labeling, FDA will
notify the responsible person of the
required labeling or change in labeling
necessary to eliminate or correct such
risk (see 21 CFR 895.25). Because FDA
is proposing to determine that the risk
associated with using ESDs for SIB or
AB cannot be corrected or eliminated by
labeling, we are not at this time
notifying responsible persons regarding
labeling. If FDA finalizes this ban as
proposed, ESDs intended for SIB or AB
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20887
will be adulterated and not legally
marketed within the meaning of section
1006 of the FD&C Act when intended
for SIB or AB.
To ban a device intended for human
use, § 895.21(d) requires that a proposed
ban briefly summarize:
• the Agency’s findings regarding
substantial deception or an
unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury;
• the reasons why FDA initiated the
proceeding;
• the evaluation of the data and
information FDA obtained under
provisions (other than section 516) of
the FD&C Act, as well as information
submitted by the device manufacturer,
distributer, or importer, or any other
interested party;
• the consultation with the
classification panel;
• the determination that labeling, or a
change in labeling, cannot correct or
eliminate the deception or risk;
• the determination of whether, and
the reasons why, the ban should apply
to devices already in commercial
distribution, sold to ultimate users, or
both; and
• any other data and information that
FDA believes are pertinent to the
proceeding.
The previous proposed and final ban
on ESDs for SIB or AB describe this
information extensively, and we do not
repeat that information in full here.
Instead, because the primary change in
circumstances leading to this
rulemaking is of a legal (not scientific)
nature, this proposed rule references the
information and findings from the
previous rulemaking and briefly
summarizes that information with
reference to the previous proposed rule,
final rule, or both, as applicable. In
addition, this proposed rule discusses
the new data and information that FDA
has become aware of since the 2020
Final Rule.
FDA notes that, although a banned
device or banned intended use of a
device is not barred from clinical study
under an investigational device
exemption pursuant to section 520(g) of
the FD&C Act, any such study must
meet all applicable requirements. These
include, but are not limited to,
requirements for: protection of human
subjects (21 CFR part 50), financial
disclosure by clinical investigators (21
CFR part 54), approval by institutional
review boards (21 CFR part 56), and
investigational device exemptions (21
CFR part 812).
V. Evaluation and Discussion of Data
and Information
FDA has determined, on the basis of
all available data and information, that
ESDs for SIB or AB present a substantial
and unreasonable risk of illness or
injury. Given the relatively short
amount of time since the previous ban
that we finalized in 2020, there is very
little relevant data or information that
we have not already considered and
discussed in the previous rulemaking.
The few publications and other
information that have become known to
the Agency in the brief interim between
the issuance of the previous ban in 2020
and now do not change our conclusions
regarding the risks or effects of ESDs for
SIB or AB or the state of the art of
treatment for this patient population.
We are therefore referencing our
previous discussion and findings (81 FR
24386 at 24386 through 24412 and 85
FR 13312 at 13312 through 13349) in
this rulemaking and supplementing
them with an explanation of how sincedeveloped data and information have
added to our understanding of the
relevant issues. We also are associating
with this rulemaking the public dockets
created for the previous rulemaking
(Docket No. FDA–2016–N–1111) and
the Neurological Devices Panel of the
Medical Devices Advisory Committee
on April 24, 2014 (Docket No. FDA–
2014–N–0238) and consider them part
of this proposed rule. All of the
documents associated with Docket No.
FDA–2016–N–1111 and Docket No.
FDA–2014–N–0238 are contained in the
docket for this proposed rule as well.
With regard to the available data and
information, this proposed rule
therefore focuses on new information
and data that we have become aware of
since we issued the previous ban.
To identify and assess information
that we had not previously considered,
we conducted a search for literature on
the risks and effects of ESDs for SIB or
AB published since our systematic
literature review for the 2016 Proposed
Rule and again assessed the state of the
art for treating SIB or AB.
Our search returned the following
new sources: (1) 5 research studies (3
case reports, an open label add-on
study, and a retrospective chart review);
(2) 4 policy or consensus statements; a
task force report; (3) 11 commentaries
by researchers, academics, or
practitioners; (4) a set of practice
guidelines; (5) a followup survey of 88
former patients of JRC that did and did
not have ESDs as part of their treatment
plans; (6) and a meta-analysis. FDA
weighed the new information according
to the same factors that we explained in
the 2016 Proposed Rule and 2020 Final
Rule.
During the development of the 2020
Final Rule, in the form of comments to
the docket, JRC provided the Agency
with several JRC studies, information,
and numerous records of patients with
SIB or AB whose treatment plans
include ESD use. Of the five new
research studies, four are authored or
coauthored by JRC staff. The four JRC
research studies appear to be based
largely on this same information and
patient data and, as discussed in
sections V.A and B, have many of the
same significant limitations identified
by FDA as the previously submitted
studies, meaning the studies are less
likely to support confidence in
generalizable results than studies with
more scientifically sound designs and
methodologies. As a result, while the
publication process adds some
reassurances to the credibility of the
information and data, presenting
previously submitted data in a different
form does little to add to overall
knowledge about the risks and effects of
ESDs for SIB or AB.
Generally speaking, little new
information or data have developed
since our previous consideration of
banning ESDs for SIB or AB.
Nonetheless, the new material is
consistent with the evidence FDA
previously considered regarding the
risks presented by this device, the lack
of evidence of its effectiveness for the
treatment of SIB or AB, and the state of
the art for treating SIB or AB, which
includes successful interventions that
are less restrictive and lower risk, as has
been the case for decades (85 FR 13312
at 13341). Accordingly, we have again
found that the devices present a
substantial and unreasonable risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling or change in
labeling.
A. Risks of ESDs for SIB or AB
The new studies and other materials
that FDA reviewed are consistent with
our previous findings regarding the risks
of ESDs for SIB or AB, including likely
underreporting of adverse events (AEs).
As explained in the 2016 Proposed Rule
and 2020 Final Rule, the risks presented
by ESDs are both psychological
(including suffering) and physical
(including pain), each having a complex
relationship with the electrical
parameters of the shock. The subjective
experience of the person receiving the
shock can therefore be difficult to
predict. Physical reactions roughly
correlate with the peak current of the
shock delivered by the ESD. However,
various other factors such as sweat,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20888 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
2According to the study, only 23 of 173
individuals were in the planned fading group.
electrode placement, recent history of
shocks, and body chemistry can
physically affect the sensation. As a
result, the intensity or pain experienced
by an individual from a particular set of
shock parameters can vary greatly from
patient to patient and from shock to
shock. More information about the
relationship between the electrical
parameters of the shock and conditions
that may affect patient perception can
be found in section I.C. of the 2016
Proposed Rule (81 FR 24386 at 24390
through 24391) and Response 14 of the
2020 Final Rule (85 FR 13312 at 13322).
Possible adverse psychological
reactions are even more loosely
correlated with shock strength or
intensity (85 FR 13312 at 13322). To
cause such adverse reactions, the shock
needs to be subjectively stressful
enough to cause trauma or suffering,
which does not necessarily require a
strong shock. Trauma becomes more
likely, for example, when the recipient
does not have control over the shock or
has developed a fear of future shocks,
neither of which is an electrical
parameter of the shock. A more detailed
explanation of these phenomena can be
found in the 2016 Proposed Rule (81 FR
24386 at 24387) and the 2020 Final Rule
(85 FR 13312 at 13324 through 13325).
To summarize, FDA found that the
medical literature shows ESDs present a
number of psychological harms
including depression, PTSD, anxiety,
fear, panic, substitution of other
negative behaviors, worsening of
underlying symptoms, and learned
helplessness (becoming unable or
unwilling to respond in any way to the
ESD); and the devices present the
physical risks of pain, skin burns, and
tissue damage.
FDA also considered risks identified
through other sources, such as experts
in the field, State agencies that regulate
ESD use, and records from the only
facility that has recently manufactured
and is currently using ESDs for SIB or
AB. These sources further support the
reports of risks in the literature and
indicate that ESDs pose additional risks
such as suicidality, chronic stress, acute
stress disorder, neuropathy, withdrawal,
nightmares, flashbacks of panic and
rage, hypervigilance, insensitivity to
fatigue or pain, changes in sleep
patterns, loss of interest, difficulty
concentrating, and injuries from falling
(85 FR 13312 at 13315). For more
information about FDA’s analysis
regarding the risks of ESDs for SIB and
AB, see section V.C. of the 2020 Final
Rule (85 FR 13312 at 13321 through
13332).
We also concluded that the medical
literature likely underreports AEs. This
is attributable to several factors
including the small number of subjects
in the studies, many of whom have
impaired ability to demonstrate and
communicate AEs; potential attribution
by clinicians of adverse effects to the
patients’ cognitive, intellectual, or
psychiatric conditions rather than to the
device; methodological limitations such
as study design and the lack of a
prespecified systematic plan for
monitoring AEs; and researcher bias (81
FR 24386 at 24395 through 24396; 85 FR
13312 at 13329 and 13331).
The new sources that are based
largely on data and information that
FDA previously reviewed when
developing the 2020 Final Rule support
our previous determinations for the
2020 Final Rule about the types of risks
posed by ESDs for SIB or AB. As a
result, these new sources do not
significantly affect our previous
assessment of risks. Specifically, one
meta-analysis of 150 reports and studies
(Ref. 2) and four commentaries (Refs. 3
to 6), including one by a JRC staff
member, report AEs associated with
ESDs for SIB or AB. These sources
identify the following physical and
psychological risks:
• pain (Refs. 2, 3, 5);
• escape or avoidance responses
(Refs. 3 and 5);
• extreme anxiety manifesting as
screaming, crying, negative
vocalizations when ESD was
implemented, and attack (Refs. 3 and 5);
• tensing of the body (Ref. 3);
• emotional behavior (Ref. 3);
• fear (Refs. 4 to 6);
• feeling terrorized (Ref. 6);
• panic (Ref. 5);
• ‘‘freezing’’ (Ref. 5);
• attempts to remove the device (Ref.
5);
• distress (Refs. 2 and 4);
• burns (Refs. 3 and 6);
• tremor in the thigh during
activation (Ref. 3); and
• temporary skin discoloration (Ref.
3).
In addition, the new sources based
primarily on data and information that
FDA had not previously reviewed for
the 2020 Final Rule generally support
these risks. A task force of the
Association for Behavior Analysis
International (ABAI) reports pain and
attempts to remove the device (Ref. 7)
and two of the studies (Refs. 8 and 9)
report pain, escape/avoidance, and/or
temporary anxiety, as noted below.
While some of these new sources
suggest that there is no strong evidence
of negative ‘‘side effects’’ of ESDs based
on research to date (Ref. 7) or no
occurrence of AEs (Ref. 8), these
conclusions are based on studies that
have significant limitations, as
discussed below and in the previous
rulemaking (81 FR 24386 at 24400
through 24401). During the previous
rulemaking, some experts expressed
concern about a heightened risk of AEs
‘‘from exposing a member of a
vulnerable patient population to
continual, painful shocks over a period
of years, in many cases several years’’
(85 FR 13312 at 13327).
As discussed in section V.B., the new
studies continue to demonstrate use of
ESDs for lengthy, indefinite periods of
time and adaptation of some patients to
the shocks (they no longer respond to
shocks), even at the strongest level. The
use of ESDs for long periods and on
patients who have adapted to shocks
would provide greater opportunity for
AEs to occur, or for existing AEs to get
worse due to cumulative effects, in a
population largely consisting of
vulnerable individuals. A treatment
plan that includes use of ESDs for
individuals with SIB or AB indefinitely
(Ref. 10) would further heighten the
concern about the risks of AEs. As
explained further in section V.B., a 173-
patient retrospective chart review study
suggests that JRC attempts ‘‘planned
fading’’ of ESD use, defined in that
study as the removal of all ESD devices
for any period, for only a relatively few
number of individuals the attending
clinician believes are likely to succeed
(Ref. 9).2 Thus, most of the individuals
would continue to accumulate exposure
to the risks of ESDs for SIB or AB.
Further, a decision to use ESDs for
‘‘long-term management’’ of SIB or AB
(Ref. 10) could suppress behavior in a
manner that masks an underlying
medical condition (Ref. 7). This in turn
can affect access to (or the desire to
access) effective treatments, which itself
represents a risk to health.
The new sources also add evidence
for the likelihood of underreporting of
AEs for the same reasons we previously
found for the medical literature
reviewed for the 2020 ban: the impaired
ability of many subjects to demonstrate
and communicate AEs, which also
increases the risk of harm to these
individuals; difficulty of practitioners to
recognize feedback from patients
indicating that an AE occurred;
methodological limitations in the
studies; and researcher bias. Thus,
while some new sources indicate that
research ‘‘does not provide strong
evidence that [ESDs are] associated with
negative side effects’’ and that the ‘‘few
studies presenting data on the side
effects of [ESDs] have reported only
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20889
positive collateral changes in
responding,’’ (Ref. 7), these conclusions
need to be viewed with these limitations
in mind.
Like the medical literature considered
for the 2020 Final Rule, most of the new
studies involve a small number of
patients, some of whom likely would
have difficulty communicating or
otherwise demonstrating AEs, including
injuries, due to cognitive, intellectual,
or psychiatric conditions. As noted in
the 2016 Proposed Rule (81 FR 24386 at
24395), this difficulty may prevent
providers from recognizing feedback
from patients indicating that an AE has
occurred.
None of the new studies prospectively
planned for the systematic observation
and collection of data regarding AEs,
and very few AEs are reported. Only one
new study on the use of the GED, the
only ESD still in use for SIB or AB,
identified any AEs (Ref. 9). That study,
a retrospective chart review of 173
patients authored by JRC staff, reports
only what the authors ‘‘anecdotally’’
found were ‘‘the most common side
effects’’: escape/avoidance responses
and temporary anxiety during the
period between occurrence of the
behavior and the ‘‘programmed
consequence,’’ i.e., shock (Ref. 9). The
study reports that staff members who
administered shocks were ‘‘prompted to
report any adverse conditions,’’ and
acknowledges that ‘‘a standardized a
priori system was not employed’’ for
monitoring AEs (Ref. 9). Thus, the study
does not report systematic, recorded
counts of adverse events based on
specific identification or followup
protocols. Rather, it reports the authors’
subjective opinion in hindsight. Three
of the other new studies, two of which
were authored or coauthored by JRC
staff, include no assessment of AEs
(Refs. 10 to 12).
The remaining new study, a case
report coauthored by JRC staff, reports
‘‘no evidence of physical or
psychological adverse effects when GED
is administered per protocol’’ (Ref. 8).
Despite that statement, the study lists
temporary pain as a ‘‘con’’ of GED use.
Further, the JRC coauthor of the study,
who is also coauthor of three of the
other new studies, continues to
acknowledge that ‘‘[t]he obvious effect
of [the ESD] is pain caused when
electrical current stimulates nociceptors
and sensory receptors’’ (Ref. 3). As
explained in the 2016 Proposed Rule
and 2020 Final Rule, FDA considers
pain to be an AE. Such biases against
recognizing and/or recording certain
harms as AEs creates doubt that the
studies adequately considered AEs and,
therefore, the risks of the device. Such
biases also would impair an accurate
benefit-risk assessment; undesirable
effects should not be presumed
unavoidable, much less go unaccounted
for, even if they ultimately prove to be
reasonable. The pain ESDs cause is
relevant because, although ESDs are
intended to apply an aversive stimulus,
the pain they cause to attempt to
develop the aversion is nevertheless
harmful.
All of the new studies are
retrospective reviews of clinical
experience, not prospective studies.
While retrospective reviews can be
informative, creating a plan to identify
AEs in a standardized, forward-looking
way and ensure a comprehensive record
from the outset will generally provide
much stronger support for a conclusion
that a lack of reported AEs means a lack
of AEs to report.
As with the earlier studies, researcher
bias and author conflicts of interest also
may have contributed to underreporting
of AEs. As indicated in section III.D.,
JRC is the sole manufacturer and only
facility to use ESDs for SIB or AB. Four
of the five new studies that looked at
ESDs for SIB or AB were authored or
coauthored by current JRC staff and may
have minimized AEs. As noted earlier,
only one study reports any AEs
experienced by patients and limits
reporting only to the ‘‘most common
side effects,’’ of which pain was not
included (Ref. 9).
The other new sources that FDA
reviewed also suggest a lack of attention
to the careful and systematic assessment
of AEs in research involving ESDs, and
more generally, in research involving
intellectually and developmentally
disabled individuals (Refs. 2, 4 to 6, 8,
and 13 to 17). For instance, one metaanalysis looking at reporting of AEs in
research involving young autistic
children notes that ‘‘[s]tudies of
effectiveness did not systematically
define, monitor, or measure adverse
events; instead they were reported in an
ad hoc fashion and considered
tangential to the studies’’ (Ref. 2).
Another author discussing research
involving autistic individuals opines
that the inadequate attention to and
examination of harms amounts to
‘‘negligent reporting’’ (Ref. 13). While
not all individuals with SIB or AB are
autistic, this information informs our
general understanding of the limitations
in research involving individuals with
intellectual and developmental
disabilities. This information tends to
show that research that, in general,
involves people who have difficulties
communicating and, more specifically,
involves the use of ESDs for SIB or AB,
often does not provide a complete
picture of AEs.
Given the foregoing, FDA has not
changed its determination that AEs very
likely have been underreported in the
literature. More information about
FDA’s prior conclusion that AEs likely
are underreported in the literature can
be found in the 2020 Final Rule at
Responses to Comments 26–29 of (85 FR
13312 at 13329 through 13332).
Thus, based on the totality of the
information available to FDA, our
determination regarding the risks posed
by ESDs for SIB or AB identified in the
2020 Final Rule has not changed.
B. Effects of ESDs for SIB or AB
The new information that FDA
reviewed does not change our previous
determinations regarding effectiveness
of ESDs for SIB or AB. For the 2020
Final Rule, FDA determined that some
individuals subject to ESDs may exhibit
an immediate interruption of the
targeted behavior if the shock is applied
while the behavior is occurring,
assuming the individual has not
adapted to the shocks (85 FR 13312 at
13333). However, we also determined
that the available evidence does not
establish that ESDs improve the
underlying causative disorder or
condition an individual to achieve a
durable reduction of SIB or AB for a
clinically meaningful period of time (85
FR 13312 at 13333). A durable effect is
one where an individual develops a
conditioned response, so the target
behavior, along with the frequency of
shocks, is significantly reduced over a
clinically meaningful period of time,
either while the individual continues to
wear the ESD or after the ESD is
removed.
As we discussed in the 2020 Final
Rule (see 85 FR 13312 at 13332), FDA
found some information in the scientific
literature to suggest ESDs may reduce
SIB and AB in some individuals.
However, as we explained, the evidence
cannot be generalized and is insufficient
to demonstrate effectiveness because the
studies suffer from serious limitations
that limit confidence in the results,
including weak design, small size,
confounding factors, outdated standards
for conduct, and study-specific
methodological limitations. As
discussed in the 2016 Proposed Rule,
generally a study’s strength or weakness
is related to design in a number of ways,
particularly through randomization,
control, and the number of study
subjects. There have been no large,
randomized, and controlled trials, or
even any large or randomized trials, of
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20890 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
3A randomized controlled trial is prospective; the
researcher creates different conditions across
groups at the outset and will observe outcomes in
the future. The researcher will eventually compare
the outcomes across groups, with the control group
providing confidence that the researcher-set
conditions were responsible for any differences.
ESDs for SIB or AB.3 Although there
have been some studies with some level
of controls, the controls have been
inadequate for effectiveness to be
demonstrated and they suffer from other
significant limitations. For further
discussion about the strengths and
weaknesses of study designs and the
limitations in the literature previously
reviewed by FDA, see section II.B.2 of
the 2016 Proposed Rule (81 FR 24386 at
24400 through 24401) and responses to
Comment 33 of the 2020 Final Rule (85
FR 13312 at 13332 through 13333).
For instance, as discussed in the
previous rulemaking, one study used a
prospective case-control design. In
addition to not being randomized, the
study also suffers from significant
methodological limitations. The study
was not blinded, the sample size was
extremely small, and an unvalidated
surrogate endpoint (decrease in
mechanical restraint rather than a direct
measure of SIB) was used as the primary
outcome measure (81 FR 24386 at
24400; 85 FR 13312 at 13333). The
study also did not systematically assess
AEs (85 FR 13312 at 13329).
FDA also reviewed a retrospective
chart review during the previous
rulemaking. Retrospective reviews are
often considered a relatively weaker
design because they do not include a
control group. The study also suffers
from various methodological limitations
that affected the weight of the evidence
(see 81 FR 24386 at 24401). The bulk of
the scientific articles reviewed during
the prior rulemaking suggesting
effectiveness of ESDs for SIB and AB
were case reports or series. Case reports
or series are even weaker than
retrospective chart reviews because they
report on, and attempt to explain, the
experiences of very few, or even single,
individuals (81 FR 24386 at 24400).
Further, designs that take an outcome as
given and then work backwards in an
attempt to explain it are more
vulnerable to bias than prospective
designs.
As explained in the 2016 Proposed
Rule, conclusions drawn from study
designs that are not randomized or
controlled are generally considered
weaker because they do not rule out
other causes for any differences in
results, including selection bias, as
effectively as other study designs. Many
factors contribute to the manifestation
or reduction of target behaviors and
therefore can be significantly
confounding (81 FR 24386 at 24400). It
is difficult to draw conclusions
regarding the effectiveness of ESDs from
a study that does not control for such
confounding factors. Studies that do not
plan for the systematic observation and
collection of data about AEs also may
overemphasize benefits, unduly
implying greater safety and
reasonableness of the risks because such
a study would not fully account for the
risks. Such studies will yield weaker
conclusions with respect to the benefitrisk profile. As noted in the 2016
Proposed Rule, in the case of ESDs used
for SIB or AB, randomization, control,
large numbers of subjects, and AE
reporting are critical to understanding
the benefit-risk profile (81 FR 24386 at
24400).
The Agency also has had concerns
regarding the fact that some of the
authors of such studies and a member
of one publication’s editorial board were
affiliated with JRC, which suggests
potential researcher bias and conflicts of
interest (81 FR 24386 at 24401). For
more information on the limitations
identified by FDA in the medical
literature FDA considered for the 2020
Final Rule, see the 2016 Proposed Rule
(81 FR 24386 at 24400 and 24401) and
Responses 31 and 33 in the 2020 Final
Rule (85 FR 13312 at 13332 and 13333).
As explained in the 2020 Final Rule,
the ability to achieve durable effects by
aversively conditioning behavior is
critical to the evaluation of the
effectiveness of ESDs for SIB or AB (see
85 FR 13312 at 13333). In its comments
in the previous rulemaking, JRC relied
on its fading of some individuals off
ESDs to support its arguments regarding
the device’s ability to condition an
individual to achieve a durable
reduction in SIB and AB. The gradual
reduction in the use of the device is part
of ‘‘fading,’’ which would presumably
be implemented once the individual has
associated the target behaviors with the
noxious stimulus. However, both the
previously reviewed and new evidence
indicate that only a small percentage of
individuals at JRC (the only facility that
applies the devices for SIB or AB) have
been completely faded off the ESD—and
that the device has been used on some
individuals for years and even decades
(see 85 FR 13312 at 13335 and 13336;
Refs. 7 to 9). While one study suggests
that there also are a number of patients
who have tolerated some degree of
fading with continued availability of the
ESD (estimated at 20 percent ranging
from hours to months) (Ref. 8), the study
acknowledges that the percentage is
only an estimate and suffers from a
number of the limitations discussed
above.
Among the new studies, the 173-
patient retrospective review indicates
that JRC views fading, defined in that
study as the removal of all ESD devices
for any period, as likely to succeed in
only a small number of individuals. JRC
selects for ‘‘planned fading’’ only a
small percentage of individuals whom
JRC assesses to have likely
demonstrated low rates of problem
behaviors over extended periods of
time, higher rates of alternative
behaviors, and the acquisition of new
skills (23 of 173 patients in the study)
(Ref. 9). Also, as has been observed in
the literature, once the ESD is removed,
SIB and AB can exceed pre-baseline
levels (85 FR 13312 at 13335). This
evidence undermines the claim that
ESDs are effective for durable behavior
conditioning for SIB or AB. Further, JRC
provided no information regarding
clinical protocols, treatment plans, or
behavior frequencies for individuals
after they stopped use and left JRC. As
explained in the 2020 Final Rule, such
data are important in order to
understand, for example, whether
behaviors worsened or improved after
discontinuation of ESD use and whether
ESDs or other, non-aversive, treatments
are responsible for any successes (85 FR
13312 at 13336).
In the previous rulemaking, FDA also
discussed evidence indicating that some
individuals can experience adaptation
to ESD shocks after being shocked for
some period of time. This means that, to
the extent a patient may have been
responding to ESD shocks, the patient
no longer responds, at least at the level
of shock strength that has been used on
them. For these individuals, even
immediate interruption of behavior may
not result from use of shocks. Experts in
the field consider adaptation to be
evidence of ineffectiveness (see 85 FR
13312 at 13336 and 81 FR 24386 at
24399). JRC has acknowledged that
adaptation may necessitate an
alternative method to modify behaviors
instead of an ESD (see 85 FR 13312 at
13336). As we stated in the 2020 Final
Rule, JRC’s Director of Research at the
time said JRC had ‘‘a very
comprehensive alternative behavior
program’’ that was ‘‘very effective’’ after
adaptation to the stronger version of
JRC’s ESD, even for patients engaging in
SIB that could result in serious injury to
themselves (85 FR 13312 at 13336). That
JRC’s own providers ultimately turn to
alternative behavioral programs, even
for severe behaviors, speaks both to the
effectiveness of state-of-the-art
approaches and the ineffectiveness of
applying electrical shocks for SIB or AB.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20891
Considering such evidence in the
previous rulemaking, FDA concluded
that the limited data regarding the
effects of ESDs for SIB or AB are
inadequate to demonstrate that ESDs are
effective for durable behavior
conditioning. For more information
about FDA’s previous determination
regarding the effects of ESDs on SIB and
AB, see section V.D. of the 2020 Final
Rule (85 FR 13312 at 13332 through
13337).
The information in the new sources
does not change the Agency’s prior
determinations about the short- and
long-term effects of ESDs on SIB or AB.
Most of the new studies are authored or
coauthored by JRC staff and appear to be
based on much of the same or similar
data JRC previously submitted, with
similar limitations, albeit presented in a
different format. As with the studies
FDA reviewed for the 2020 Final Rule,
the new studies similarly suggest some
immediate effects of ESDs for SIB or AB
for some individuals, in particular that
the ESDs interrupted the target behavior
(Refs. 8 to 12). Some commentaries,
consensus statements, the ABAI task
force report, and the 88-patient survey
also offer some support for the
immediate effect of ESDs on targeted
behavior (although some individuals
may not respond and/or may adapt to
the shock intensity and alternative
approaches are used) (Refs. 3, 5, 7, 14,
18, and 19). The new studies also
conclude that ESDs have some level of
durable effectiveness for some
individuals with SIB and AB. Relying
on information that FDA previously
reviewed and some of the new studies
discussed in this proposed rule, the
ABAI task force similarly states that
ESDs ‘‘can be effective in suppressing
problem behavior for up to 5 years’’ and
that ‘‘responding typically remains
suppressed under [ESDs] over the long
run’’ (Ref. 7). However, due to the
various limitations of these studies as
well as the evidence indicating
adaptation to the device and potentially
unending ESD use for some individuals,
FDA has determined that the evidence
still does not demonstrate that the
devices are effective for durable
behavior conditioning for SIB or AB for
a clinically meaningful period of time,
much less that they present a favorable
benefit-risk profile.
The new studies suffer from many of
the same limitations as those studies
FDA considered and discussed in the
2016 Proposed Rule and 2020 Final
Rule. The three case report studies
(Refs. 8, 11, and 12) and one open label
add-on trial (Ref. 10) involve a very
small number of patients (one to four),
which makes generalization of any
results difficult. Four of the five new
studies were authored or coauthored by
JRC staff, which may introduce
researcher bias. All of the studies lack
robust experimental controls and, as
explained above, likely underreport
AEs.
The new studies also include
significant confounding factors, such as
the presence of concurrent treatments or
changes in other treatments over a
period of time. The JRC 173-patient
retrospective chart review acknowledges
that, ‘‘[d]uring treatment, a given
participant may have received
additional treatments including
psychotherapy, psychopharmacology,
and/or various behavioral
interventions.’’ The ABAI task force
report describes one example of an
additional treatment, a ‘‘holster
program,’’ used by JRC in some cases
where a patient adapts or does not
respond to the GED–4 to decrease
problem behavior (see also Ref. 8).
Individuals in the program receive
continuous access to a positive reward
(preferred videos, music, etc.) for
keeping their hands in a holster for
increasing amounts of time. If they
remove their hands, the reward will
stop, and a shock will be administered.
Once the individuals can keep their
hands in the holsters for 10 minutes,
they continue to receive regular
‘‘practice sessions’’ to ‘‘maintain the
effectiveness of holster-wearing to
decrease problem behavior throughout
the remainder of the day.’’ While
wearing the holster during the day, if a
target behavior occurs, the individual
receives a shock and a 10-minute holster
session (Ref. 7). The description of the
holster program, while unclear in some
particulars, suggests that increasing
opportunities for positive reinforcement
supports any reduction of target
behaviors. The use of this positive
reinforcement method introduces a
confounding factor in the determination
of the effectiveness of ESDs; the reward
system, rather than the ESD, may have
induced or helped induce any desirable
effects on behavior. Alternatively, or
perhaps as a complement to the reward
system, use of the holster may have
controlled or helped control the
behavior. Other concurrent treatments
or changes to treatments may have
similar confounding effects.
Another limitation of some of the new
studies stems from the fact that the
behaviors targeted for ESD use are not
consistent across the studies, and they
were not limited to SIB or AB. Target
behaviors spanned a wide range, such as
‘‘members of a chain of behaviors (e.g.,
posturing and threats) that consistently
led to the ultimate behavior, attempts to
engage in the behavior, and vestigial
versions of the behavior’’ (Ref. 9). Thus,
vaguely described improvements that
may, for example, include reductions in
‘‘vestigial versions of the behavior’’ are
not obviously evidence of effectiveness
for treating SIB or AB. Such claims also
speak to a vulnerable population being
subject to invasive behavioral control
techniques; that is, such claims may
also speak to an increased risk of AEs
from an overly broad set of targeted
behaviors. The sources also indicate that
ESDs may be used for other categories
of behavior such as noncompliant,
destructive, and major disruptive
behaviors as well as attempts to remove
the device (Refs. 7, 9, and 11).
Delivering an electric shock, for
instance, for disruptive behavior is not
clearly addressing self-injury or
aggression. In the same vein, use of the
device in an attempt to prevent its
removal is not only difficult to rely on
as evidence of effectiveness for SIB or
AB, but such use also underscores that
vulnerable patients are unable to avoid
the risks presented by the device, such
as pain. This in turn can increase other
risks, such as the risk of learned
helplessness (Ref. 20). Such broad target
behaviors also suggest that a population
broader than individuals exhibiting SIB
and AB may be subject to the invasive
behavioral control of ESDs and the risks
they present.
Some studies acknowledge these
methodological limitations. The JRC
173-patient retrospective chart review
(Ref. 9) explains that ‘‘a wide range of
behavior topographies [were] targeted’’
because they ‘‘were associated with
aggression and self-injury,’’ and the
‘‘participants lacked homogeneity
outside of the uniting factor of behavior
problem severity and refractory nature.’’
In other words, the study included
participants with widely differing
behavioral characteristics, although
their severity was considered similar.
The study also recognizes, ‘‘[t]he
participants carried a variety of
diagnoses and may have responded
differently because of their diagnostic
classification’’ and ‘‘[v]arious
pathophysiological and environmental
determinants may lead to such
behaviors.’’ This study also noted, ‘‘the
frequency data lacks interobserver
reliability,’’ meaning it did not account
for or address variability between
different observers’ subjective
judgments. The open label add-on trial
(Ref. 10) identifies some of the same
limitations that make it difficult to
conclude that any observed reductions
in target behavior are evidence of
effectiveness of ESDs for SIB or AB.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00013 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20892 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
New evidence regarding the lengthy,
often indefinite, time periods that ESDs
have been used on individuals and the
adaptation of some individuals to the
shocks further supports our
determination that ESDs have not been
demonstrated to be effective. For
example, a four-patient case report
study suggests that, for some patients,
ESDs would be indicated indefinitely,
similar to insulin for diabetes or
antiarrhythmic and antihypertensive
drugs for cardiovascular disease (Ref. 8).
The ABAI task force reports that JRC’s
approach is that ‘‘most clients will need
to receive treatment [with ESDs] for
lengthy periods of time (5 to 20 years)’’
and that ‘‘this does not appear to be a
treatment that can be effectively faded
or discontinued quickly’’ (Ref. 7). This
suggests that the device is not effective
for durable behavior conditioning for
SIB or AB, and is, therefore, not
effective for its intended use.
The new sources also support FDA’s
previous finding that ESDs may even
lose any immediate effect for some
individuals exhibiting SIB or AB. The
173-patient retrospective chart review
from JRC reports that for some
participants the ‘‘GED lost efficacy or
was only partially effective and was
substituted for [sic] a more intense
stimulus (GED–4)’’ (Ref. 9). The authors
note that adaptation was consistent with
earlier studies that identified
habituation to shock intensity by some
patients and the need for more-intense
shocks to eliminate targeted behavior.
The JRC four patient case report study
noted this effect in one patient (Ref. 8).
The ABAI task force also reported
adaptation to the ESD based on a visit
by members spanning 2 full days in July
2022 to assess JRC’s use of ESDs. The
report states that ‘‘[i]n some cases, the
intensity of the shock must be increased
to improve and/or maintain its efficacy’’
and ‘‘a [JRC] client will be moved from
the GED–3 to the GED–4 if the GED–3
does not reduce the behavior
sufficiently or if the client’s behavior
begins to show habituation to the GED–
3’’ (Ref. 7). According to the report,
patients can even habituate, or may not
respond to, shocks from the GED–4,
which provides shocks that are
significantly stronger than those
provided by the GED–3 (41 milliampere
(mA) vs. 15 mA).
As a result of such weaknesses and
limitations, the available data, including
the data and information in the new
studies and other materials, are not
sufficient to demonstrate that ESDs for
SIB or AB are effective for durable
behavior conditioning or that they have
a favorable benefit-risk profile.
Based upon all available information
and data, FDA continues to find that
while ESDs may result in the
interruption and immediate cessation of
SIB and AB for some individuals if the
individual has not adapted to the
shocks, ESDs have not been
demonstrated to be effective at
improving the underlying condition or
conditioning an individual to achieve a
durable reduction of SIB or AB for a
clinically meaningful period of time.
The evidence does not establish a
favorable benefit-risk profile, and the
newer evidence suggesting indefinite
use of the devices for ongoing
management of symptoms may indicate
a worse benefit-risk profile.
C. State of the Art for Treating SIB or
AB
In determining whether a device
presents an unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury, FDA
analyzes the risks and benefits that the
device poses to individuals relative to
the state-of-the-art of treatment for the
intended population—that is, the
current state of technical and scientific
knowledge and medical practice, and
the potential hazard to patients and
users. As explained in the 2020 Final
Rule, FDA found that scientific and
medical advances, concerns for ethical
treatment, and a desire to create
generalizable interventions that work in
community settings led behavioral
scientists to develop treatments for SIB
and AB that are low risk and have
generally been successful. The available
information indicated that state-of-theart treatments of SIB or AB are
multielement positive interventions
(e.g., paradigms such as PBS or DBT),
sometimes in conjunction with
pharmacological treatments, as
appropriate (85 FR 13312 at 13341; 81
FR 24386 at 24410). When restrictive
elements or punishment techniques
were used, they supplemented other
behavioral intervention elements, were
much less intrusive, and were not
painful; they were considered both
compatible with PBS and beneficial (see
85 FR 13312 at 13341).
As we said in the 2020 Final Rule, the
use of ESDs does not teach a person new
skills or replacement behaviors, does
not mitigate the underlying cause of
their SIB or AB, and has not been
demonstrated to be effective for
behavioral conditioning, which is
especially difficult to achieve for those
who have conditions that impair their
ability to understand consequences and
react by changing their behaviors. These
are some of the reasons that the field of
applied behavior analysis (ABA) as a
whole moved away from highly
intrusive physical aversive conditioning
techniques such as ESDs decades ago
(85 FR 13312 at 13340).
FDA determined that although
positive behavioral interventions may
not always be completely successful in
all patients, positive-only approaches
have low risk and are typically
successful, on their own or in
conjunction with pharmacotherapy,
regardless of the severity of the behavior
targeted or the setting, and can achieve
durable long-term results while
avoiding the risks posed by ESDs (85 FR
13312 at 13315). As noted above, when
practitioners felt punishment
techniques were helpful, such
techniques were much less intrusive
than the use of ESDs; for example, they
included timeouts, holds, and facial
screening (85 FR 13312 at 13341). For a
detailed description of FDA’s
assessment of state-of-the-art treatments
for SIB and AB for the 2020 Final Rule,
see section V.E. of the 2020 Final Rule
(85 FR 13312 at 13337 through 13344)
and section II.C. of the 2016 Proposed
Rule (81 FR 24386 at 24403 through
24410).
The evidence still indicates that
positive-only approaches, such as
approaches based on differential
reinforcement and skill-based
instruction, have been shown to be
highly successful in treating many types
of severe problem behaviors (Ref. 7).
Even when ESDs are used for SIB or AB,
they generally are supplemented by
state-of-the-art and/or other less
intrusive approaches even for severe
cases (Ref. 9). An example of an
alternative treatment that practitioners
may turn to if an individual habituates
to the strongest ESD available is the
holster program, which is a less
intrusive paradigm that increases the
use of positive rewards. In short, to the
extent new information and data bear on
the state of the art, they underscore why
the field as a whole has, for decades (81
FR 24386 at 24387), moved away from
ESDs and turned toward less intrusive
techniques to treat SIB or AB effectively
(Ref. 21). Further, the newer information
and data emphasize that ESDs are not in
fact treatments of last resort, even at the
facility that has previously made such
claims. As discussed further in section
V.C., the ABAI task force reports that
JRC rarely conducts analogue functional
analyses (FAs), despite the fact that
experts consider FA the ‘‘gold standard’’
assessment strategy for problem
behavior (Ref. 7). This practice suggests
that individuals may not experience the
‘‘almost unlimited’’ range of alternative
treatments available (Ref. 7) based on an
up-to-date, location-specific,
comprehensive FA prior to JRC
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00014 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20893
4The labeling of GED devices includes the
statement that ‘‘[t]he device should be used only on
patients where alternate forms of therapy have been
attempted and failed’’ (81 FR 24386 at 24412).
incorporating ESDs into their treatment
plan. This failure to systematically
identify and exhaustively implement
alternatives undercuts the certainty that
JRC’s patients would not respond to less
intrusive treatment, are uniquely
refractory, and that the devices are
applied as a last resort, as is suggested
by the device labeling.4
Thus, FDA concludes that state-ofthe-art treatment for SIB and AB
involves positive behavioral techniques,
with or without pharmacotherapy, and
that positive-only approaches have low
risk and are generally successful even
for challenging SIB and AB, in both
clinical and community settings.
Moreover, when punishment techniques
are used in state-of-the-art behavior
modification plans, they are not painful
and are much less intrusive.
D. Labeling and Correcting or
Eliminating Substantial and
Unreasonable Risks
After considering all available data
and information for the 2020 Final Rule,
FDA determined that labeling or a
change in labeling cannot correct or
eliminate the unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury of
ESDs for SIB or AB (85 FR 13312 at
13344 and 13345). FDA further
determined that labeling cannot limit
the risks to only the most refractory
patients. The only ESDs for SIB or AB
that are currently in use, two models of
GED manufactured and used by JRC, are
labeled for use only in individuals
refractory to other treatments. Such a
subpopulation is difficult or impossible
to define (85 FR 13312 at 13332).
Further, FDA found the available
evidence casts doubt on whether the
devices are in fact applied as a last
resort after attempting all other
approaches as indicated in the labeling
(and as claimed by one commenter on
the previous proposed rule (JRC)) (Ref.
22). These determinations remain true
after FDA’s updated review of the
available literature.
More importantly, no subpopulation
has been identified in which ESDs are
effective for SIB or AB or do not pose
the risks identified in the previous
rulemaking and discussed earlier in this
document. There are also no data
suggesting ESDs are more likely to be
effective for SIB or AB or less likely to
pose these risks in a subpopulation that
is refractory to other treatments or in
any other subpopulation. Regardless of
how the device is labeled, the
individual subject to it will receive
shocks intended to be painful and
thereby be subject to the physical and
psychological risks described in section
V.A above, without demonstrated
effectiveness (see also 85 FR 13312 at
13344).
Further, individuals with intellectual
or developmental disabilities may not
communicate or be able to communicate
information for the device user to
change the manner in which the device
is used to correct or eliminate the risks
(81 FR 24386 at 24412; 85 FR 13312 at
13344). Impaired communication of the
effects of the device further prevents
labeling from reducing risks.
Accordingly, we concluded that no
manner of labeling will correct or
eliminate the substantial and
unreasonable risks of these devices (see
81 FR 24386 at 24411 and 24412; 85 FR
13312 at 13344).
No additional information has come
to FDA’s attention indicating that
labeling or a change in labeling can
correct or eliminate the substantial and
unreasonable risks of these devices. As
noted in section V.C., the new evidence
indicates that JRC rarely conducts FAs
of patients. This absence of FAs
conducted by JRC suggests that the
existing limiting language in the
labeling has little effect on mitigating
risks by focusing on refractory cases.
Indeed, as discussed more in section
V.B. above, refractory cases at JRC are
ultimately treated with less invasive
approaches suggesting that as used,
ESDs are not a treatment of last resort.
This reinforces our prior determinations
that labeling specifying a refractory
population would not correct or
eliminate the substantial and
unreasonable risk, and that there are no
labeling changes that would mitigate the
risks posed by these ESDs.
Finally, as explained above and in the
2020 Final Rule, no manner of labeling
will correct or eliminate the risks for
patients receiving shocks, many of
whom may not communicate or be able
to communicate information about AEs
as a result of intellectual or
developmental disabilities (85 FR 13312
at 13344). The device will continue to
present the same unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury for
these individuals regardless of the
labeling. Based on this information and
data, FDA concludes that labeling, or a
change in labeling, cannot correct or
eliminate the unreasonable and
substantial risk of illness or injury of
ESDs for SIB or AB.
VI. Description of the Proposed Rule
We are proposing to amend part 895
by adding § 895.105 to ban ESDs for SIB
or AB. The proposed rule would ban
ESDs intended to treat patients with SIB
or AB and would cause ESDs intended
for these uses not to be legally marketed
devices, for example, under section
1006 of the FD&C Act. We are also
proposing conforming edits to
§ 882.5235 to exclude ESDs for SIB or
AB from the class II designation for
aversive conditioning devices and
instead to indicate that ESDs for SIB or
AB are banned devices.
A. Applicability (Proposed § 895.105)
FDA is proposing to ban ESDs that
apply a noxious electrical stimulus to a
person’s skin to reduce or stop
aggressive or self-injurious behavior.
FDA has determined that these devices
present an unreasonable and substantial
risk of illness or injury that cannot be
corrected or eliminated by labeling.
FDA is not proposing to ban ESDs
intended for other purposes, such as
smoking cessation. ESDs are not used in
electroconvulsive therapy, sometimes
called electroshock therapy or ECT,
which is unrelated to this rulemaking.
1. Distinguishing Technologically
Similar Devices With Different Intended
Uses
Note that, although ESDs for SIB or
AB may have parallels in technology
and behavior modification strategy as
ESDs for other intended uses, ESDs for
SIB or AB are distinguishable from other
ESDs based on several factors. These
factors include device design; whether
patients have control over the shocks
and what level of control they have; the
power output and resulting intensity of
the electric shock; and how the electric
shock affects the patient, target
behavior, and underlying conditions.
For example, a smoking cessation
device would generally have different
output characteristics, resulting in a less
noxious (perhaps non-painful) shock,
where the person affected by the shock
retains complete control of application
of shocks (or could immediately revoke
consent to the application of shocks).
Use of such a device without
modification for SIB or AB would not be
expected to induce a response for SIB or
AB.
In contrast, patients exhibiting SIB or
AB have no control over devices
intended for these uses and these
devices often deliver a painful or very
painful shock, strong enough to induce
fear and other reactions, as opposed to
a milder shock from other ESDs. The
SIB or AB patient is made to carry a
stimulus generation module in a waistpack or backpack 24 hours a day, 7 days
a week, except during attempts to
‘‘fade’’ the device (although the user,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00015 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20894 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
not the patient, still decides whether to
apply and trigger the device).
Depending on the targeted behavior,
ESDs for SIB or AB use up to five
electrodes strapped to the arms, legs,
torso, and/or feet simultaneously, but
the locations are not of the patient’s
choosing (see Ref. 7). Shocks are from
one electrode at a time, and the
electrodes are rotated every hour or after
discharge, but the patients are not able
to dictate the rotation for themselves
(see Ref. 7). Patients subject to ESDs for
SIB or AB also have no control over
whether to withdraw from treatment.
Even for patients with mild to no
intellectual disabilities, evidence
indicates that assent from the patient is
not sought (see Ref. 7). As explained in
the 2020 Final Rule, lack of control over
multiple shocks is an additional risk
factor because learned helplessness may
be more likely when the recipient does
not have control over the shocks and
has previously received multiple shocks
(85 FR 13312 at 13326). When the
recipient does not have control over the
shocks and has previously received
multiple such shocks, psychological
trauma such as an anxiety or panic
reaction can result even when the
strength is relatively modest (see 85 FR
13312 at 13324 through 13327).
Moreover, as explained in the 2020
Final Rule, devices with similar
technology intended for other uses
address different conditions or
behaviors in different patient
populations, and as a result, they
present different benefit-risk profiles. A
device that presents certain risks or
benefits for one population may not
present the same risks or benefits, or
present them to the same degree, or may
present different risks or benefits, for a
different population. An important
consideration in the benefit-risk profile
of a device is the intended patient
population and their vulnerabilities.
The intended use population for ESDs
for SIB or AB includes a significant
number of individuals who have
disabilities that present vulnerabilities,
such as difficulty communicating pain
and other harms caused by ESDs. As a
result of these vulnerabilities, the
individual may not communicate or be
able to communicate information for the
device user to change the manner in
which the device is used to correct or
eliminate the risks (85 FR 13312 at
13344). In addition, people who exhibit
SIB or AB may not be able to associate
cause and effect or, as with some people
with an autism spectrum disorder
(ASD), they may express pain atypically
or not at all (85 FR 13312 at 13317).
These vulnerabilities are not likely to be
present in people who use ESDs for
other purposes. As a result, individuals
subject to shocks from an ESD for SIB
or AB would bear a higher risk of injury
or illness from the shock than, for
example, smokers who choose to use an
ESD to help quit smoking (81 FR 24386
at 24395). Smokers can immediately
communicate pain to the device’s
controller or remove the device
themselves. They can communicate
symptoms of other harms that may be
caused by ESDs to their healthcare
provider, which may lead to
discontinuation of the device’s use, or
they can decide to stop using the device
(85 FR 13312 at 13317).
2. Banning ESDs for SIB or AB That Are
Already in Commercial Distribution
FDA is proposing that the ban apply
to devices already in commercial
distribution and use, as well as devices
sold or commercially distributed in the
future (see § 895.21(d)(7)). This means
ESDs for SIB or AB currently in use on
individuals would be subject to the ban
and thus, upon the effective date of the
final rule, adulterated under section
501(g) of the FD&C Act and subject to
potential FDA enforcement action. FDA
is proposing this because the risk of
illness or injury to individuals on whom
these devices are already used is just as
unreasonable and substantial as it is for
future individuals on whom these
devices could be used. Indeed, as the
development of more beneficial, lowerrisk alternative treatments continues,
the ban’s mitigation of the substantial
and unreasonable risk may be greatest
for the individuals on whom ESDs are
currently used.
However, as explained in the 2020
Final Rule, for devices already in use for
SIB or AB, in light of concerns about
thorough assessments of the behaviors’
functions and corresponding
development of appropriate treatment
plans, FDA recognizes that affected
parties may need some period of time to
establish or adjust treatment plans (85
FR 13312 at 13349). FDA believes that
transition off ESDs should occur under
the supervision of a physician and that
the transition should occur as soon as
possible for the individual. FDA is
proposing, for devices in use on specific
individuals as of the date of publication
of any final rule based on this proposal,
and subject to a physician-directed
transition plan, compliance would be
required 180 days after the date of
publication of any final rule. We
welcome comment on how long
transitions may take.
B. Proposed Conforming Amendment
(§ 882.5235)
We are proposing conforming edits to
paragraph (b) of § 882.5235 to exclude
ESDs for SIB or AB from the
classification of aversive conditioning
devices into class II. This amendment
would indicate that ESDs for SIB or AB
are banned devices rather than class II
devices.
VII. Proposed Effective and Compliance
Dates
FDA proposes that any final rule
based on this proposed rule be effective
30 days after its date of publication in
the Federal Register.
FDA proposes that, for devices in use
on specific individuals as of the date of
publication of the final rule and subject
to a physician-directed transition plan,
compliance be required 180 days after
the date of publication of the final rule
in the Federal Register. For all other
devices, FDA proposes that compliance
be required 30 days after publication in
the Federal Register.
VIII. Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts
A. Introduction
We have examined the impacts of the
proposed rule under Executive Order
12866, Executive Order 13563,
Executive Order 14094, the Regulatory
Flexibility Act (5 U.S.C. 601–612), and
the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of
1995 (Pub. L. 104–4).
Executive Orders 12866, 13563, and
14094 direct us to assess all benefits,
costs, and transfers of available
regulatory alternatives and, when
regulation is necessary, to select
regulatory approaches that maximize
net benefits (including potential
economic, environmental, public health
and safety, and other advantages;
distributive impacts; and equity). Rules
are ‘‘significant’’ under Executive Order
12866 Section 3(f)(1) (as amended by
Executive Order 14094) if they ‘‘have an
annual effect on the economy of $200
million or more (adjusted every 3 years
by the Administrator of [the Office of
Information and Regulatory Affairs
(OIRA)] for changes in gross domestic
product); or adversely affect in a
material way the economy, a sector of
the economy, productivity, competition,
jobs, the environment, public health or
safety, or State, local, territorial, or tribal
governments or communities.’’ OIRA
has determined that this proposed rule
is not a significant regulatory action
under Executive Order 12866 Section
3(f)(1).
The Regulatory Flexibility Act
requires us to analyze regulatory options
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00016 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20895
that would minimize any significant
impact of a rule on small entities.
Because the proposed rule would only
affect one entity—one that is not
classified as small—we propose to
certify that the proposed rule will not
have a significant economic impact on
a substantial number of small entities.
The Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
of 1995 (section 202(a)) requires us to
prepare a written statement, which
includes estimates of anticipated
impacts, before proposing ‘‘any rule that
includes any Federal mandate that may
result in the expenditure by State, local,
and tribal governments, in the aggregate,
or by the private sector, of $100,000,000
or more (adjusted annually for inflation)
in any one year.’’ The 2022 threshold
after adjustment for inflation is $177
million, using the 2022 Implicit Price
Deflator for the Gross Domestic Product.
This proposed rule would not result in
an expenditure in any year that meets or
exceeds this amount.
B. Summary of Benefits, Costs, and
Transfers
The proposed rule, if finalized, would
ban ESDs used for self-injurious or
aggressive behavior. FDA has
determined that these devices present
an unreasonable and substantial risk of
illness or injury that cannot be corrected
or eliminated by labeling or a change in
labeling. The proposed rule would
apply to devices already in distribution
and use, as well as to future sales and
commercial distribution of these
devices. The costs associated with this
proposed rule include costs of
individuals who are subject to the
device if they move to another facility
or another program within the affected
entities. Affected entities, who use the
device on such individuals, would also
incur costs from reading and
understanding the rule. The present
value of total estimated costs range
between $0.00 million and $68.93
million at a 7 percent discount rate,
with a primary estimate of $34.47
million. At a 3 percent discount rate, the
present value of costs range between
$0.00 million and $80.59 million, with
a primary estimate of $40.3 million. We
estimate that the annualized costs over
10 years would range from $0.00 million
to $9.17 million with a primary estimate
of $4.59 million at a 7 percent discount
rate and a 3 percent discount rate.
The benefits would include avoided
negative physical and psychological
effects from using ESDs on individuals
and benefits to society in terms of
protecting vulnerable populations,
which we are not able to quantify. We
estimate that between 51 to 54
individuals would be affected by the
proposed rule, if finalized, and benefit
from avoided adverse effects associated
with using ESDs. Any transfers
associated with the rule would occur if
individuals enroll at facilities other than
the affected entities. The present value
of total transfer ranges between $0.00
million and $118.26 million at a 7
percent discount rate, with a primary
estimate of $59.13 million. At a 3
percent discount rate, the present value
of transfers ranges between $0.00
million and $138.26 million, with a
primary estimate of $69.13 million. The
annualized value of transfers range
between $0.00 million and $15.74
million, with a primary estimate of
$7.87 million, at both 7 percent and 3
percent discount rates. We provide a
summary of the benefits, costs, and
transfers of the proposed rule, if
finalized, in table 1. We request
comment on our estimates of benefits,
costs, and transfers of this proposed
rule.
TABLE 1—SUMMARY OF BENEFITS, COSTS, AND DISTRIBUTIONAL EFFECTS OF THE PROPOSED RULE
[Millions of 2022 dollars]
Category Primary
estimate
Low
estimate
High
estimate
Units
Notes
Year dollar Discount
rate Period covered
Benefits:
Annualized Monetized ($m/year) ............................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 7%
3%
Annualized Quantified ............................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 7%
3%
Qualitative ...................................................................... Reduction in injuries or adverse psychological effects of ESDs on individuals subject to the
device.
Costs:
Annualized Monetized ($m/year) ............................ $4.59
$4.59
$0.00
$0.00
$9.17
$9.17
2022
2022
7%
3%
10 years
10 years.
Annualized Quantified ............................................ .................... .................... .................... .................... 7%
3%
Qualitative ............................................................... Transition costs to affected entities and individuals for transitioning to alternative treatments.
Transfers:
Federal Annualized Monetized ($m/year) .............. .................... .................... .................... .................... 7%
3%
Other Annualized Monetized ($m/year) ................. $7.87
$7.87
$0.00
$0.00
$15.74
$15.74
2022
2022
7%
3%
10 years
10 years.
From: Affected entities that currently use
the device
To: Other facilities that treat aggressive or selfinjurious behavior
Effects: State, Local, or Tribal Government: State expenditures may rise or fall if individuals move
across state boundaries
Small Business: No effect
Wages: No effect
Growth: No effect
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00017 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
20896 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules
We have developed a comprehensive
Preliminary Economic Analysis of
Impacts that assesses the impacts of the
proposed rule. The full preliminary
analysis of economic impacts is
available in the docket for this proposed
rule (Ref. 23) and at https://
www.fda.gov/about-fda/economicsstaff/regulatory-impact-analyses-ria.
IX. Analysis of Environmental Impact
FDA has carefully considered the
potential environmental effects of this
proposed rule and of possible
alternative actions. In doing so, the
Agency focused on the environmental
impacts of its action as a result of
disposal of unused ESDs that will need
to be handled after the effective date of
the final rule.
The environmental assessment (EA)
considered each of the alternatives in
terms of the need to provide maximum
reasonable protection of human health
without resulting in a significant impact
on the environment. The EA considered
environmental impacts related to
landfill and incineration of solid waste
at municipal solid waste (MSW)
facilities. The proposed action will
result in an initial batch disposal of
used and unused ESDs primarily at a
single geographic and affiliated
locations followed by a gradual,
intermittent disposal of a small number
of remaining devices in this and other
affected communities where these
devices are used. The total number of
devices to be disposed is small, i.e.,
approximately less than 300 units.
Overall, given the limited number of
ESDs in commerce, the proposed action
is expected to have no significant
impact on MSW and landfill facilities
and the environment in affected
communities.
The Agency has concluded that the
proposed rule will not have a significant
impact on the human environment, and
that an environmental impact statement
is not required. FDA’s finding of no
significant impact (FONSI) and the
evidence supporting that finding,
contained in an EA prepared under 21
CFR 25.40, may be seen in the Dockets
Management Staff (see ADDRESSES)
between 9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday
through Friday; they are also available
electronically at https://
www.regulations.gov. FDA invites
comments and submission of data
concerning the EA and FONSI.
X. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
FDA tentatively concludes that this
proposed rule contains no collection of
information. Therefore, clearance by the
Office of Management and Budget under
the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995 is
not required.
XI. Federalism
FDA has analyzed this proposed rule
in accordance with the principles set
forth in Executive Order 13132. Section
4(a) of the Executive order requires
Agencies to ‘‘construe . . . a Federal
statute to preempt State law only where
the statute contains an express
preemption provision or there is some
other clear evidence that the Congress
intended preemption of State law, or
where the exercise of State authority
conflicts with the exercise of Federal
authority under the Federal statute.’’
Federal law includes an express
preemption provision that preempts
certain State requirements ‘‘different
from or in addition to’’ certain Federal
requirements applicable to devices (see
section 521 of the FD&C Act (21 U.S.C.
360k); Medtronic v. Lohr, 518 U.S. 470
(1996); and Riegel v. Medtronic, 128 S.
Ct. 999 (2008)). If this proposed rule is
made final, it would create a Federal
requirement under section 521 of the
FD&C Act that bans ESDs for SIB or AB.
XII. Consultation and Coordination
With Indian Tribal Governments
We have analyzed this proposed rule
in accordance with the principles set
forth in Executive Order 13175. We
have tentatively determined that the
rule does not contain policies that
would have a substantial direct effect on
one or more Indian Tribes, on the
relationship between the Federal
Government and Indian Tribes, or on
the distribution of power and
responsibilities between the Federal
Government and Indian Tribes. The
Agency solicits comments from tribal
officials on any potential impact on
Indian Tribes from this proposed action.
XIII. References
The following references marked with
an asterisk (*) are on display at the
Dockets Management Staff (see
ADDRESSES) and are available for
viewing by interested persons between
9 a.m. and 4 p.m., Monday through
Friday; they also are available
electronically at https://
www.regulations.gov. References
without asterisks are not on public
display at https://www.regulations.gov
because they have copyright restriction.
Some may be available at the website
address, if listed. References without
asterisks are available for viewing only
at the Dockets Management Staff.
Although FDA verified the website
addresses in this document, please note
that websites are subject to change over
time.
*1. FDA, ‘‘Meeting Materials of the
Neurological Devices Panel.’’ April 24, 2014.
Available at: https://wayback.archive-it.org/
7993/20170405192749/https:/www.fda.gov/
AdvisoryCommittees/
CommitteesMeetingMaterials/
MedicalDevices/
MedicalDevicesAdvisoryCommittee/
NeurologicalDevicesPanel/ucm394252.htm.
2. Bottema-Beutel, K., S. Crowley, M.
Sandbank, et al. ‘‘Adverse Event Reporting in
Intervention Research for Young Autistic
Children.’’ Autism, 25:322–335, 2021.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1177/
1362361320965331.
3. Blenkush, N.A. ‘‘A Risk-Benefit Analysis
of Antipsychotic Medication and Contingent
Skin Shock for the Treatment of Destructive
Behaviors.’’ International Journal of
Psychology & Behavior Analysis, 3(121):1–14,
2017. Available at: https://doi.org/10.15344/
2455-3867/2017/121.
4. Schuck, R.K., D.M. Tagavi, K.M.P.
Baiden, et al. ‘‘Neurodiversity and Autism
Intervention: Reconciling Perspectives
Through a Naturalistic Developmental
Behavioral Intervention Framework.’’ Journal
of Autism and Developmental Disorders,
52(10):4625–4645, October 13, 2021.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-
021-05316-x.
5. Zarcone, J.R., M.P. Mullane, P.E.
Langdon, et al. ‘‘Contingent Electric Shock as
a Treatment for Challenging Behavior for
People With Intellectual and Developmental
Disabilities: Support for the IASSIDD Policy
Statement Opposing Its Use.’’ Journal of
Policy and Practice in Intellectual
Disabilities, 17(4):291–296, 2020. Available
at: https://doi.org/10.1111/jppi.12342.
6. Mercer, J. ‘‘Evidence of Potentially
Harmful Psychological Treatments for
Children and Adolescents.’’ Child and
Adolescent Social Work Journal, 34(2):107–
125, 2017. Available at: https://doi.org/
10.1007/s10560-016-0480-2.
7. Perone, M., D.C. Lerman, S.M. Peterson,
et al. ‘‘Report of the ABAI Task Force on
Contingent Electric Skin Shock.’’
Perspectives on Behavior Science, 46(2):261–
304, 2023. Available at: https://doi.org/
10.1007/s40614-023-00379-w.
8. Yadollahikhales, G., N. Blenkush, and
M. Cunningham. ‘‘Response Patterns for
Individuals Receiving Contingent Skin Shock
Aversion Intervention To Treat Violent SelfInjurious and Assaultive Behaviours.’’ BMJ
Case Reports CP, 14(5):e241204, 2021.
Available at: http://dx.doi.org/10.1136/bcr2020-241204.
9. Blenkush, N.A. and J. O’Neill.
‘‘Contingent Skin-Shock Treatment in 173
Cases of Severe Problem Behavior.’’
International Journal of Psychology &
Behavior Analysis, 6:167, 2020. Available at:
https://doi.org/10.15344/2455-3867/2020/
167.
10. O’Neill, J. and N. Blenkush.
‘‘Contingent Skin-Shock Treatment and the
Reversal of Effects on Severe Problem
Behavior.’’ International Journal of
Psychology & Behavior Analysis, 6:168, 2020.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.15344/2455-
3867/2020/168.
11. Blenkush, N. and M. Cunningham.
‘‘Elimination of Refractory Aggression and
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:01 Mar 25, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00018 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\26MRP1.SGM 26MRP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 59 / Tuesday, March 26, 2024 / Proposed Rules 20897
Self-Injury With Contingent Skin Shock.’’
The Journal of Neuropsychiatry and Clinical
Neurosciences, 35:264–268, 2023. Available
at: https://doi.org/10.1176/
appi.neuropsych.21020049.
12. Salerno, J. ‘‘Efficacy, Risks, and Ethics
of Aversive or Positive Therapy in Identical
Twins.’’ Ph.D. diss., Walden University,
2019. Available at: https://
scholarworks.waldenu.edu/dissertations/
6946.
13. Dawson, M. and S. Fletcher-Watson.
‘‘When Autism Researchers Disregard Harms:
A Commentary.’’ Autism, 26(2):564–566,
2022. Available at: https://doi.org/10.1177/
13623613211031403.
14. Foxx, R.M. ‘‘The National Institutes of
Health Consensus Development Conference
on the Treatment of Destructive Behaviors: A
25-Year Update of a Study in Hardball
Politics.’’ In: Controversial Therapies for
Autism and Intellectual Disabilities (Second
ed.). New York, NY: Routledge; part VI,
chapter 27, pp. 451–471, 2016. Foxx, R.M.
and J.A. Mulick (Eds.) Available at: https://
www.routledge.com/Controversial-Therapiesfor-Autism-and-Intellectual-Disabilities-FadFashion/Foxx-Mulick/p/book/
9781138802230.
15. Leaf, J.B., J.H. Cihon, R. Leaf, et al.
‘‘Concerns About ABA-Based Intervention:
An Evaluation and Recommendations.’’
Journal of Autism and Developmental
Disorders, 52(6):2838–2853, 2022. Available
at: https://doi.org/10.1007/s10803-021-
05137-y.
16. Shkedy, G., D. Shkedy, and A.H.
Sandoval-Norton. ‘‘Treating Self-Injurious
Behaviors in Autism Spectrum Disorder.’’
Cogent Psychology, 6(1):1682766, 2019.
Available at: https://doi.org/10.1080/
23311908.2019.1682766.
17. Benevides T.W., S.M. Shore, K. Palmer,
et al. ‘‘Listening to the autistic voice: Mental
health priorities to guide research and
practice in autism from a stakeholder-driven
project.’’ Autism, 24(4):822–833, 2020.
Available at https://doi.org/10.1177/
1362361320908410.
18. Yadollahikhales, G., M. Cunningham,
and N. Blenkush. ‘‘Graduated Electrical
Decelerator Effectiveness for Severe
Dangerous Behaviors in Autistic Children:
Case Study.’’ The Journal of
Neuropsychology and Clinical
Neurosciences, 31(3): E28–E28, 2019.
Available at https://doi.org/10.1176/
appi.neuropsych.18100235.
19. Lowther, N. and M. Newman. ‘‘Does
the Behavioral Progress Made at JRC
Generalize Across Settings and Over Time? A
Follow-Up Study of Former JRC Students.’’
ABA, 2014.
20. Mu¨ller M.J. ‘‘Helplessness and
Perceived Pain Intensity: Relations to
Cortisol Concentrations After
Electrocutaneous Stimulation in Healthy
Young Men.’’ BioPsychoSocial Medicine,
5:1–7, 2011. Available at https://
pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/21718526/.
21. Association for Behavior Analysis
International. ‘‘Position Statement on the Use
of CESS.’’ 2022. Available at https://
www.abainternational.org/about-us/policiesand-positions/position-statement-on-the-useof-cess-2022.aspx. (Accessed August 18,
2023.)
*22. JRC, Inc., public docket comment to
the 2016 Proposed Rule, tracking number
1k0–8ref-d5le. Received July 25, 2016.
Available at: https://www.regulations.gov/
comment/FDA-2016-N-1111-1637.
*23. ‘‘Preliminary Regulatory Impact
Analysis, Initial Regulatory Flexibility
Analysis, and Unfunded Mandates Reform
Act Analysis; Banned Devices; Proposal To
Ban Electrical Stimulation Devices for SelfInjurious or Aggressive Behavior’’. Available
at: https://www.fda.gov/about-fda/
economics-staff/regulatory-impact-analysesria.
List of Subjects
21 CFR Part 882
Medical devices.
21 CFR Part 895
Administrative practice and
procedure, Labeling, Medical devices.
Therefore, under the Federal Food,
Drug, and Cosmetic Act and under
authority delegated to the Commissioner
of Food and Drugs, we propose that 21
CFR parts 882 and 895 be amended as
follows:
PART 882—NEUROLOGICAL DEVICES
■ 1. The authority citation for part 882
continues to read as follows:
Authority: 21 U.S.C. 351, 360, 360c, 360e,
360j, 360l, 371.
■ 2. In § 882.5235, revise paragraph (b)
to read as follows:
§ 882.5235 Aversive conditioning device.
* * * * *
(b) Classification. Class II (special
controls), except for electrical
stimulation devices for self-injurious or
aggressive behavior. Electrical
stimulation devices for self-injurious or
aggressive behavior are banned. See
§ 895.105 of this chapter.
PART 895—BANNED DEVICES
■ 3. The authority citation for part 895
continues to read as follows:
Authority: 21 U.S.C. 352, 360f, 360h, 360i,
371.
■ 4. Add § 895.105 to subpart B to read
as follows:
§ 895.105 Electrical stimulation devices for
self-injurious or aggressive behavior.
Electrical stimulation devices for selfinjurious or aggressive behavior are
aversive conditioning devices that apply
a noxious electrical stimulus to a
person’s skin to reduce or cease selfinjurious or aggressive behavior.
Dated: March 12, 2024.
Robert M. Califf,
Commissioner of Food and Drugs.
[FR Doc. 2024–06037 Filed 3–25–24; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4164–01–P
