Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6455 

DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE
Bureau of Prisons
28 CFR Part 541
[Docket No. BOP–1171–P]
RIN 1120–AB71
Inmate Discipline Program:
Disciplinary Segregation and
Prohibited Act Code Changes
AGENCY: Bureau of Prisons, Justice.
ACTION: Proposed rule.
SUMMARY: In this document, the Bureau
of Prisons (Bureau) proposes to amend,
clarify, and streamline inmate discipline
regulations to conform with current
practice; to adopt recommendations of
the January 2016 U.S. Department of
Justice Report and Recommendations
Concerning the Use of Restrictive
Housing to reduce the potential length
of the disciplinary segregation sanction;
and to amend and clarify the list of
prohibited act codes.
DATES: Electronic comments must be
submitted, and written comments must
be postmarked, no later than 11:59 p.m.
on April 1, 2024.
ADDRESSES: Please submit electronic
comments through the regulations.gov
website, or mail written comments to
the Legislative & Correctional Issues
Branch, Office of General Counsel,
Bureau of Prisons, 320 First Street NW,
Washington, DC 20534.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Daniel J. Crooks III, Assistant General
Counsel/Rules Administrator, Federal
Bureau of Prisons, at the address above
or at (202) 353–4885.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Please
note that all comments received are
considered part of the public record and
made available for public inspection
online at www.regulations.gov. If you
want to submit personal identifying
information (such as your name,
address, etc.) as part of your comment,
but do not want it to be posted online,
you must include the phrase
‘‘PERSONAL IDENTIFYING
INFORMATION’’ in the first paragraph
of your comment. You must also locate
all the personal identifying information
you do not want posted online in the
first paragraph of your comment and
identify what information you want
redacted.
If you want to submit confidential
business information as part of your
comment but do not want it to be posted
online, you must include the phrase
‘‘CONFIDENTIAL BUSINESS
INFORMATION’’ in the first paragraph
of your comment. You must also
prominently identify confidential
business information to be redacted
within the comment. If a comment
contains so much confidential business
information that it cannot be effectively
redacted, all or part of that comment
may not be posted to
www.regulations.gov.
Personal identifying information
identified and located as set forth above
will be placed in the agency’s public
docket file, but not posted online.
Confidential business information
identified and located as set forth above
will not be placed in the public docket
file. If you wish to inspect the agency’s
public docket file in person by
appointment, please see the FOR
FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT
paragraph.
I. Background
In this document, the Bureau of
Prisons (Bureau) proposes to amend,
clarify, and streamline inmate discipline
regulations in 28 CFR part 541 to
conform with current practice; to adopt
recommendations of the U.S.
Department of Justice Report and
Recommendations Concerning the Use
of Restrictive Housing (January 2016) 1
(hereinafter ‘‘Report’’) to reduce the
potential length of the disciplinary
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00020 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6456 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
segregation sanction; and to amend and
clarify the list of prohibited act codes.
A. Clarifying Changes
Section 541.1 currently indicates that
the purpose of the subpart is to describe
the inmate discipline program. We first
propose to add introductory language
clarifying that the subpart does not
create a private right of action or
otherwise permit civil claims for alleged
violations. We next propose to make
non-substantive alterations in this
section to clarify that inmate discipline
helps ensure the safety, security, and
orderly operation of correctional
facilities as well as the protection of the
public by sanctioning inmates who
commit prohibited acts. We also retain
language indicating that the subpart
describes the inmate discipline program
and ensures that sanctions will not be
imposed in a capricious or retaliatory
manner. Finally, we reiterate that,
consistent with the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, for all discipline cases, the Unit
Discipline Committee or Disciplinary
Hearing Officer shall consider the
individual inmate’s mental health and
disabilities when determining the
appropriateness of sanctions.
Section 541.2 states that the Bureau’s
inmate discipline program applies to
sentenced and unsentenced inmates in
Bureau custody and those designated to
any prison, institution, or facility in
which persons are held in custody by
direction of, or under an agreement
with, the Bureau of Prisons. Although
this language implicitly includes
inmates designated to Bureau contract
facilities, the Bureau proposes to make
this inclusion explicit.
We propose to alter this section to
indicate that, for the purposes of these
regulations, ‘‘staff’’ indicates staff
authorized by the Bureau to implement
the inmate discipline program as
described in this subpart, and that the
inmate discipline program applies to
sentenced and unsentenced inmates in
Bureau custody or in any facility,
including community confinement
facilities, in which persons are held in
custody by the direction of, or under an
agreement with, the Bureau.
Section 541.3 describes prohibited
acts and available sanctions. The
current regulation divides prohibited
acts into four separate categories based
on severity: Greatest; High; Moderate;
and Low. We now propose to eliminate
the ‘‘Low’’ category to eliminate
prohibited act codes that were
underutilized. The revised list of
prohibited acts is explained in more
detail below.
B. Prohibited Act Codes
The Bureau proposes to make several
changes to 28 CFR 541.3 Table 1 to
§ 541.3—Prohibited Acts and Available
Sanctions, as follows:
Clarification of code 101, regarding
assaulting any person, or an armed
assault on the institution’s secure
perimeter (to be used only when serious
physical injury has been attempted or
accomplished).
We propose to clarify the language of
this code to indicate that the prohibited
conduct is the attempted or
accomplished assault and/or battery of
any person involving serious physical
injury, or an armed assault on the
institution’s secure perimeter. No
changes will be made to the substance
or application of this code.
Expansion of code 102, regarding
escape.
We propose to expand this code,
which currently includes ‘‘escape from
escort; escape from any secure or nonsecure institution, including community
confinement; escape from unescorted
community program or activity;’’ and
‘‘escape from outside a secure
institution,’’ to clarify that this code
prohibits any unauthorized departure
from custody, including, but not limited
to, unauthorized departure from the
buildings, lands, property or perimeter
(inside or outside) of any secure or nonsecure facility; unauthorized departure
from community confinement, work
detail, program or activity (whether
escorted or unescorted); and
unauthorized departure from any
authorized location regardless of
electronic monitoring devices.
Escape from a work detail is currently
included in prohibited act code 200,
which we now propose to delete, as the
language in that code will be
encompassed by revised code 102. In
the July 26, 2005, proposed rule on the
subject, the Bureau explained that code
200 was created to allow for a less
severe sanction than that imposed for
any other type of escape if an inmate
voluntarily chooses to minimize his
prohibited act by returning (70 FR
43093). However, in the intervening
years, the Bureau has found that
allowing for a less severe sanction for
escapes with voluntary return has
resulted in greater incidences of inmate
escapes and attempts to escape in order
to procure contraband to introduce into
Bureau facilities.
Therefore, to deter any unauthorized
departure from Bureau custody,
regardless of whether the inmate
chooses to voluntarily return, and to
emphasize the severity of the prohibited
act, we propose to delete code 200 and
include escapes from work details
within code 102 in the Greatest Severity
Level.
Clarification of code 103, regarding
setting a fire.
We propose to clarify the language of
this code to prohibit causing ignition or
combustion (including, but not limited
to, fire or explosion) that either
threatens serious bodily harm or is done
in furtherance of another Greatest
Severity Level prohibited act. No
changes will be made to the substance
or application of this code.
Clarification of code 104, regarding
possession, manufacture, or
introduction of a gun, firearm, weapon,
sharpened instrument, knife, dangerous
chemical, explosive, ammunition, or
any instrument that has been modified
in order to be used as a weapon.
We propose to clarify the language of
this code to prohibit possession,
manufacture, or introduction of any
item that has been weaponized. Such an
item can include firearms, sharpened
instruments, unauthorized blades,
explosives, ammunition, unauthorized
chemicals, or any other object that has
been modified in order to be used as a
weapon.
Combining codes 105 and 106,
regarding rioting and encouraging
others to riot.
We propose to combine code 105,
rioting, and 106, encouraging others to
riot, into one code 105 that clarifies the
prohibited act as rioting; promoting
rioting; or encouraging others to
participate in a riot. In this code, we
also define the term ‘‘riot’’ as a
disturbance with two or more people
that involves violence or threats of
violence or damage to government
property, for the purpose of preventing
or coercing official action.
Expansion of code 108, regarding
hazardous tools.
We propose to expand this code,
which currently includes ‘‘possession,
manufacture, introduction or loss’’ of
hazardous tools, to also include ‘‘use’’ of
a hazardous tool. We also propose to
include in the list of hazardous tool
examples those ‘‘items necessary in the
use of these devices.’’ Making these
changes would allow for discipline if
telltale evidence of such items as a
cellphone, electronic device, or escape
paraphernalia were not found, but items
which could only be used with
prohibited items are found to have been
used.
Separation of codes 110, 111, 112,
113, regarding drugs, narcotics, and
marijuana, from those regarding alcohol
and intoxicants.
We propose to make a technical
amendment involving prohibited act
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00021 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6457
codes 110, 111, 112, and 113, all of
which currently cover the prohibited
acts of refusing to be tested for,
introducing, or making, using, or
possessing drugs or alcohol/intoxicants
not prescribed by medical staff. Having
one set of prohibited acts that relates to
both drugs and alcohol/intoxicants
together has made it difficult for the
Bureau to effectively track the number
of incident reports related solely to
drugs or solely to alcohol/intoxicants.
We therefore propose to separate the
one set of prohibited activities into two:
one group of codes relating to drugs,
and the other to alcohol/intoxicants. To
accomplish this, we created four new
prohibited act codes: 116, 117, 118, and
119. Codes 110 through 113 will now
relate solely to drugs, and codes 116
through 119 will repeat the activities
described in 110 through 113, but with
regard to alcohol/intoxicants. The
wording of the codes has not otherwise
changed.
Combination of codes 114, 205, 206,
229, and 300, regarding non-consensual,
sexually explicit conduct up to and
including assault.
We propose to combine codes 114,
205, 206, 229, and 300 to clarify that the
behavior we seek to prohibit
encompasses additional nonconsensual, sexually explicit conduct,
including ‘‘sexual assault.’’ Instead, we
propose to clarify that code 114
prohibits sexually explicit conduct
involving force, threat of force, or threat
of harm; or sexually explicit conduct
without consent or through coercion; or
attempts thereof. Revised code 114
would encompass sexually explicit
conduct that staff have observed and
instructed an inmate to cease.
In this code, we further define the
term ‘‘sexually explicit conduct’’ as it is
described in 18 U.S.C. 2256(2)(A):
verbal or written sexual proposals or
threats; actual or simulated sexual
intercourse, including but not limited to
genital-genital, oral-genital, anal-genital,
or oral-anal, whether between persons
of the same or opposite sex; bestiality;
masturbation; sadistic or masochistic
abuse; or lascivious exhibition of the
anus, genitals, or pubic area of any
person.
There has been a general increase over
several years in the occurrence of these
prohibited acts, particularly as aimed at
staff. This behavior, especially towards
staff, rises to the greatest level of
severity because it results in the
existence of a sexually hostile work
environment for staff. Accordingly, we
seek to increase the severity level for
these behaviors to underscore the level
of seriousness of this conduct, to deter
this type of activity, and to promote a
healthy work environment for Bureau
staff.
As conforming amendments, the
Bureau proposes to delete codes 205
(engaging in sexual acts), 206 (making
sexual proposals or threats to another),
229 (sexual assault of any person,
involving non-consensual touching
without force or threat of force), and 300
(indecent exposure) because the
conduct those codes prohibit would be
encompassed under revised code 114.
Addition of code 194, regarding
unauthorized use of social media and
fund transfer services.
We propose to add a Greatest Severity
Level prohibited act code (194) for
accessing, using, or maintaining social
media accounts (including, but not
limited to the following: Facebook,
Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok,
etc. or any successor), or directing
others to establish or maintain social
media accounts on the inmate’s behalf
for the purpose of committing or aiding
in the commission of a criminal act; of
committing or aiding in the commission
of any Greatest category prohibited act;
or of circumventing authorized
communications monitoring for the
purpose of committing or aiding in the
commission of a criminal act or of any
Greatest category prohibited act. This
code also prohibits inmates’ use of fund
transfer services such as CashApp, as
explained in more detail below.
In determining whether the Bureau
can restrict inmate access to social
media accounts, the appropriate
standard to consider is whether such a
restriction is reasonably related to
legitimate penological interests. See,
e.g., Aguiar v. Recktenwald, No. 3:13–
2616, 2015 WL 5829727, at *8 (M.D. Pa.
Sept. 30, 2015) (citing Solan v.
Zickefoose, 530 F. App’x 109, 110 (3d
Cir. 2013), cert. dismissed, 134 S. Ct.
1499 (2014), reconsideration denied,
134 S. Ct. 1927 (2014) (quoting Turner
v. Safley, 482 U.S. 78, 89 (1987)). In
Aguiar, the court articulated the Turner
factors demonstrated by the Bureau’s
policy of restricting social media use by
inmates, as follows:
The first Turner factor requires a valid,
rational connection between the prison
regulation and the legitimate governmental
interest articulated to justify it. Here, the
record supports a rational connection
between controlling indirect communications
with outsiders through effectuating the
deactivation of inmates’ Facebook accounts,
and the articulated goal of promoting the
security of the prison institution and the
protection of the community . . . . The
policy . . . of restricting inmates from
accessing social media platforms as a means
to communicate with unauthorized contacts,
‘‘is content neutral and does not work to
exclude any particular message or
expression.’’ McIntyre v. Bayer, 243 F.3d 548
(9th Cir. 2000) . . . .
If the prison facility acquiesced upon
discovering that an inmate’s Facebook
account was being operated to convey
content from the inmate himself, it would
open the door to inmates communicating
with a virtually unlimited number of
individuals. Those Facebook contacts could
include other confined inmates, gang
members with whom the inmate may be
affiliated with and prohibited from
contacting, or perhaps more disturbingly
victims of the inmate’s crimes or other
individuals who may be subject to deliberate
intimidation by the inmate (or by the
inmate’s contact who controls the account,
harassing the victim in effective anonymity).
The uncontroverted evidence indicates that
administrators have determined, in their
sound discretion, that permitting inmates to
maintain Facebook accounts through third
parties would jeopardize the security and
order of the facility and would circumvent
established policies regulating
communication that enhance prison
security. . . .
With regard to the second factor, Aguiar’s
First Amendment right to communication or
association has not been impermissibly
denied, as the challenged policy leaves
ample alternatives to communicate with
friends and family. Specifically, Aguiar
retains the use of other methods of
communication with outsiders through
prison visitation, postal mail, telephone, and
TRULINCS messaging. . . . Specifically, the
First Amendment does not require ‘‘that the
government provide telephones,
videoconferencing, email, or any of the other
marvelous forms of technology that allow
instantaneous communication across
geographical distances; the First Amendment
is a limit on the exercise of governmental
power, not a source of positive obligation.’’
Holloway v. Magness, No. 5:07–00088, 2011
WL 204891, at *7 (E.D. Ark. Jan. 21, 2011).
The third Turner factor considers the
impact that the accommodation of the
asserted constitutional right will have on
Defendants. Here, the Court has considered
the consequence of accommodating the
asserted constitutional right on the allocation
of prison resources generally, the other
inmates, and the prison administration.
‘‘When accommodation of an asserted right
will have a significant ‘ripple effect’ on
fellow inmates or prison staff, courts should
be particularly deferential to the informed
discretion of corrections officials.’’ Turner,
482 U.S. at 89. Permitting inmates to
effectively curate the content posted on their
Facebook pages through an authorized agent
would impose insurmountable burdens on
prison staff tasked with monitoring inmates’
communications, would require incredible
prison resources to effectively regulate, and
would undermine the infrastructure of
communication policies designed to
safeguard prison operations. In toto, these
considerations demonstrate a substantial
burden on prison officials and resources as
an impact of accommodating Aguiar’s access
to Facebook.
The fourth Turner factor, the availability of
other alternatives to effectuate the BOP’s
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00022 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6458 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
objective, weights in favor of the BOP, as
Aguiar has not offered any meaningful
alternatives to Defendants’ current
arrangement of disclosing to Facebook
inmates whose Facebook accounts are
updated by third parties in violation of
Facebook’s user agreement, and more
generally of discouraging inmates from
gaining access to social media platforms in
order to communicate with unauthorized
contacts.
In sum, the Turner factors weigh in favor
of the BOP’s informal policy of restricting
inmates from maintaining social media
platforms such as Facebook, as the decision
to notify Facebook upon discovering an
inmate with an active Facebook account does
not impermissibly curtail an inmate’s right to
communicate with persons outside the
prison. As Aguiar has not alleged the
deprivation of a constitutional right,
Defendants are entitled to qualified
immunity with respect to these First
Amendment claims.
Aguiar v. Recktenwald, 2015 WL
5829727, at *9. In addition, several
states currently have provisions in law
or policies prohibiting prisoners from
accessing social media. See, e.g., Ala.
Code 14–11–70 (2013); Texas
Department of Criminal Justice Offender
Orientation Handbook, Ch. 1, III. N., p.
24 (Apr. 2016); New Mexico Corrections
Department Policy CD–044005, internet
Use, page 5, M.1. (May 20, 2015); North
Carolina Department of Public Safety,
Prisons, Policy & Procedures, General,
B.0300 Inmate Conduct Rules (y)(2)
(July 10, 2013).
We further propose to include
language necessary to enable the Bureau
to target and eliminate inmates’ use of
fund transfer services like CashApp.
When inmates use these services to send
and receive money, Bureau staff are
unable to monitor those transfers.
CashApp and similar applications
employ encryption technology that
enables inmates to avoid detection,
allowing them to use these platforms for
unlawful purposes such as money
laundering. Without the ability to
closely monitor fund transfers using
CashApp and similar applications,
Bureau staff are unable to advise and
assist other federal, state, and local law
enforcement entities with identifying
criminal or potentially criminal activity
in which a particular inmate is engaged.
Thus, inclusion of this language will
provide us with a tool to disincentive an
inmate’s use of these fund transfer
services and to hold inmates
accountable for violating the prohibition
against such use.
Addition of code 195, regarding use of
video visits to commit or aid in the
commission of a criminal act or any
other Greatest category prohibited act.
We propose to add a Greatest Severity
Level prohibited act code (195) for use
of video visits to commit or aid in the
commission of a criminal act or any
other Greatest category prohibited act.
The Bureau adds this code to account
for advances in technology that have
allowed for the use of video visiting by
inmates as an alternative to telephonic
communication and visiting room
visitation. This code is necessary to
discipline for infractions similarly to
current code 196, ‘‘use of the mail for
an illegal purpose or to commit or
further a Greatest category prohibited
act;’’ and 197, ‘‘use of the telephone for
an illegal purpose or to commit or
further a Greatest category prohibited
act.’’
Expansion of code 196, regarding use
of the mail for an illegal purpose.
Current code 196 allows for discipline
for use of the mail for an illegal purpose
or to commit or further a Greatest
category prohibited act. We propose to
expand this code to include misuse of
any form of electronic mail and
messaging, including messaging through
the TRULINCS system. The Bureau
makes this addition to account for
advances in technology that have
allowed for the use of electronic mail by
inmates as an alternative to written
correspondence and telephone
communication. This change is
necessary to discipline for infractions
similarly to current code 196, ‘‘use of
the mail for an illegal purpose or to
commit or further a Greatest category
prohibited act;’’ and 197, ‘‘use of the
telephone for an illegal purpose or to
commit or further a Greatest category
prohibited act.’’
Clarification of code 201, regarding
fighting.
We propose to modify this code to
clarify that the term ‘‘fighting’’ is
defined as a hostile physical or verbal
encounter between two or more persons.
This is more descriptive than the
previous code description, which was
simply ‘‘fighting with another person.’’
No other changes are made in the
substance or application of this code.
Addition of code 202, regarding
possession of forms used in fraudulent
filing.
We propose to create a new code 202
prohibiting possession of any forms that
may be used in the fraudulent filing of
Uniform Commercial Code (UCC) liens
and prohibiting any attempt to publicly
disclose the private information of
others for unlawful purposes.
For several years, inmates have been
filing fraudulent liens against Bureau
staff, typically alleging that a particular
Bureau staff member is financially
indebted to the inmate because of
something the Bureau staff did or did
not do. Inmates frequently file these
liens under the purported authority of
the UCC, which has been adopted by
most states.
Under the UCC, a creditor files a
financing statement with the required
state office. This financing statement
creates a lien. To remove the lien, the
creditor must file a formal amendment.
When Bureau legal staff learn that a lien
has been filed against a staff member,
they file a demand letter requesting to
have the lien removed. If the inmate
refuses to remove the lien, the Bureau
staff may file a document contesting the
lien. Specifically, the UCC provides a
debtor the opportunity to file a
correction on a record that is believed
to be inaccurately or wrongfully filed.
The filing of a correction statement does
not invalidate the original financing
statement but does serve to alert anyone
searching the records for the debtor’s
name that this financing statement is
contested.
Filing fraudulent liens or attempting
to disclose the private information of
others is prohibited by the Court
Security Improvement Act of 2007 (Pub.
L. 110–177, Jan. 7, 2008). That Act
added two new provisions to the
Federal Criminal Code: 18 U.S.C. 1521,
which established a criminal offense for
filing, attempting to file, or conspiring
to file, a false lien or encumbrance
against the real or personal property of
a Federal Judge or Federal law
enforcement officer; and 18 U.S.C. 119,
which established a criminal offense for
making publicly available ‘‘restricted
personal information’’ about a covered
person’’ with the intent to threaten,
intimidate, or incite a crime of violence
against such person. Such information,
as defined in that section, includes an
individual’s Social Security number,
home address, home phone number,
mobile phone number, personal email,
or home fax number. The definition of
‘‘covered persons’’ in 18 U.S.C.
119(b)(2) includes court officers, jurors,
witnesses, informants, and Federal law
enforcement officers, which includes
Bureau of Prisons staff.
The Bureau’s current regulations
explain, in 28 CFR 500.1(h), that
contraband is material prohibited by
law, regulation, or policy that can
reasonably be expected to cause
physical injury or adversely affect the
safety, security or good order of the
facility or protection of the public. The
filing of fraudulent liens and the
possession of documents that contain
another’s restricted personal
information impacts the security and
good order of Bureau facilities.
Federal courts have upheld
prohibition of UCC forms and
documents related to UCC filings, as
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00023 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6459
2Public Law 107–77, Title VI, sec. 614, Nov. 28,
2001, 115 Stat. 801, provided that:
Hereafter, none of the funds appropriated or
otherwise made available to the Federal Bureau of
Prisons may be used to distribute or make available
any commercially published information or
material to a prisoner when it is made known to the
Federal official having authority to obligate or
expend such funds that such information or
material is sexually explicit or features nudity.
Similar provisions were contained in the
following prior Appropriations Acts:
Public Law 106–553, § 1(a)(2) [§ 614], Dec. 21,
2000, 114 Stat. 2762A–106.
Public Law 106–113, Div. B, § 1000(a)(1) [Title VI,
§ 615], Nov. 29, 1999, 113 Stat. 1501A–54.
Public Law 105–277, Div. A, § 101(b) [Title VI,
§ 614], Oct. 21, 1998, 112 Stat. 2681–113.
Public Law 105–119, Title VI, § 614, Nov. 26,
1997, 111 Stat. 2518.
Public Law 104–208, Div. A, § 101(a) [Title VI,
§ 614], Sept. 30, 1996, 110 Stat. 3009–66.
contraband. For instance, in Edmonds v.
Sobina, 296 F. App’x 214 (3d Cir. 2008),
the court held that discipline imposed
upon a federal inmate in unauthorized
possession of UCC filing forms did not
implicate any constitutionally protected
liberty interest. 296 F. App’x 217–18.
The court upheld the Bureau’s policy of
restricting possession of such items as
contraband, indicating that this
restriction did not violate the inmate’s
First Amendment right to possess legal
materials. Id.; see also Monroe v. Beard,
536 F.3d 198 at 207–09 (3d Cir. 2008)
(upholding Pennsylvania DOC
prohibition of UCC forms, indicating
that possession of such forms
‘‘demonstrates the considerable ‘ripple
effect’ that accommodating the
plaintiff’s right to possess these items
may have on DOC resources and on
guards and DOC employees if other
inmates were to successfully file false
liens.’’); Dantzler v. Beard, No. 09–275,
2010 WL 1008294, *10 (W.D. Pa. Mar.
15, 2010) (Pennsylvania Department of
Corrections confiscation of an inmate’s
UCC materials ‘‘did not violate his
procedural due process rights because,
as a matter of law, Plaintiff has no
property rights in UCC materials.’’);
Lawson v. Stephens, No. 7:15–173, 2018
WL 10731584, at *1 (N.D. Tex. June 22,
2018) (Texas Department of Correction
policy restricting inmate possession of
UCC materials ‘‘does not violate
plaintiff’s First Amendment right to
possess legal materials . . . .’’); Torres
v. Fla. Dep’t of Corr., 742 F. App’x 403
(11th Cir. 2018) (Florida Department of
Corrections ‘‘rule permitting
confiscation of inmate’s UCC forms was
reasonably related to legitimate
penological interest in preventing
prisoners from filing fraudulent UCC
liens, and thus the rule did not violate
inmate’s First Amendment rights.’’).
Additionally, in United States v.
Martin, 356 F. Supp. 2d 621 (W.D. Va.
2005), the court held that imposition of
a permanent injunction barring federal
inmates from filing financing statement
or liens without prior court approval
was warranted, where inmates had filed
meritless financing statements against
federal judges and Bureau officials for
purpose of intimidation and
harassment, and where inmates
continued to try to file liens against
other federal officials involved in their
cases after the government filed suit. Id.
at 628–29.
For these reasons, the Bureau now
proposes to prohibit inmate possession
of any forms that may be used in the
fraudulent filing of UCC liens and any
attempt to publicly disclose the private
information of others for unlawful
purposes.
Clarification of code 203, regarding
threatening.
Current code 203 prohibits
threatening another with bodily harm or
any other offense. The Bureau now
proposes to modify this code to clarify
the prohibited conduct as
communicating an intent to jeopardize
the safety, security, and orderly
operation of a Bureau facility, protection
of the public, or the person or property
of another. No substantive or
application changes are made to this
code.
Clarification of code 204, regarding
extortion and blackmail.
Current code 204 prohibits extortion;
blackmail; protection; demanding or
receiving money or anything of value in
return for protection against others, to
avoid bodily harm, or under threat of
informing. The Bureau now proposes to
modify this code to clarify the
prohibited conduct as extortion,
blackmail, or otherwise demanding or
receiving anything of value using actual
or threatened force, violence, fear, or
intimidation. No change is made to the
substance or application of this rule.
Reservation of code 205, regarding
sexual acts.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Reservation of code 206, regarding
making sexual proposals or threats to
another.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Addition of code 210, regarding
possession of sexually explicit material.
We propose to create a new code 210
prohibiting possession of sexually
explicit material. Possession of sexually
explicit and sexually provocative
images, writings, or other materials can
pose a danger to the security of the
institution. Also, the presence of these
materials in Bureau facilities creates a
sexualized work environment, which is
potentially disturbing to staff
conducting routine searches of inmate
property. This is particularly a concern
when inmates openly display sexually
provocative images in their cells.
Furthermore, this is also a concern for
inmates under specific correctional
management plans relating to sexual
offenses or under treatment for
disorders related to sexual dysfunction,
as ongoing possession of sexually
explicit images or documents is a risk
factor for recidivism and
counterproductive to rehabilitation.
Current Bureau regulations in 28 CFR
part 540 prohibit inmates from receiving
sexually explicit material. See, e.g., 28
CFR 540.14(d)(7) (correspondence may
be rejected if it is ‘‘[s]exually explicit
material (for example, personal
photographs) which by its nature or
content poses a threat to an individual’s
personal safety or security, or to
institution good order . . .’’); 28 CFR
540.71(b)(7) (an incoming publication
may be rejected if it ‘‘is sexually explicit
material which by its nature or content
poses a threat to the security, good
order, or discipline of the institution, or
facilitates criminal activity.’’).
Additionally, 28 CFR 540.72 explains
the statutory restriction requiring return
of commercially published information
or material that is sexually explicit or
features nudity. This derives from
repeated Congressional mandates
against making such information or
material available to inmates. See 18
U.S.C. 4042 note (‘‘Sexually Explicit
Commercially Published Material’’).2 In
section 540.72(b)(4), ‘‘sexually explicit’’
is defined as ‘‘a pictorial depiction of
actual or simulated sexual acts
including sexual intercourse, oral sex,
or masturbation.’’
As indicated above in relation to
revised code 114, the Bureau recognizes
the definition of ‘‘sexually explicit
conduct’’ in 18 U.S.C. 2256(2)(A), which
is as follows:
. . . ‘‘sexually explicit conduct’’ means
actual or simulated—
(i) sexual intercourse, including
genital-genital, oral-genital, anal-genital,
or oral-anal, whether between persons
of the same or opposite sex;
(ii) bestiality;
(iii) masturbation;
(iv) sadistic or masochistic abuse; or
(v) lascivious exhibition of the anus,
genitals, or pubic area of any person;
As indicated, the Bureau defines
‘‘materials’’ as any pictorial depiction,
to include photos, drawings, digitally or
computer-manipulated image, or other
visual depictions (i.e., collages, posters).
Therefore, this code seeks to prohibit
inmate possession of visual depictions
of actual or simulated sexual
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00024 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6460 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
intercourse, bestiality, masturbation,
sadistic or masochistic abuse, or
lascivious exhibition of the anus,
genitals, or pubic area of any person.
By adding this code, we seek to
reduce currently prohibited behaviors to
clarify that the possession of sexually
explicit material poses a potential harm
to staff by creating and maintaining a
sexually hostile work environment, and
to the community when sexual
offenders persist in conduct contrary to
rehabilitation goals.
Combination of current code 212,
regarding group demonstrations; current
High Severity Level code 213,
encouraging others to refuse to work or
to participate in a work stoppage; and
current Moderate Severity Level code
336, circulating a petition.
We propose to combine current code
212, regarding group demonstrations,
current High Severity Level code 213,
encouraging others to refuse to work or
to participate in a work stoppage, and
current Moderate Severity Level code
336, circulating a petition. Each of these
codes describes prohibited conduct
which may be described as participating
in or promoting others to participate in
unauthorized conduct as a group.
Therefore, we propose to create a new
code 212, which would prohibit
participating or promoting others to
participate with two or more persons in
unauthorized behavior, whether
planned or unplanned (including, but
not limited to, unauthorized work
stoppage or refusal to work or eat, group
demonstrations, sit-ins, creating or
circulating a petition, etc.).
Prohibiting participation by two or
more inmates in authorized behavior,
such as circulating petitions, for
instance, to maintain control over group
activity by prisoners is a reasonable
response to a legitimate penological
concern. See Duamutef v. O’Keefe, 98
F.3d 22, 24 (2d Cir. 1996) (explaining
that as long as individual grievance
procedures are available, prisons may
bar circulation of petitions); Wolfel v.
Morris, 972 F.2d 712, 716 (6th Cir. 1992)
(‘‘[I]t seems clear that a prison does not
violate a prisoner’s rights by refusing to
allow circulation of petitions.’’). If the
group behavior is coupled with a
demonstrated and evidenced threat to
the safety, security, or good order of the
facility or protection of the public, the
penological concern is heightened and
the necessity of disciplining such
activity is even greater.
The appropriate, legally authorized
method for inmates to formally grieve
prison conditions is through the
Administrative Remedy Program,
described in 28 CFR part 542. Under
this Program, every inmate can raise
individual complaints and receive three
levels of review (at the institution,
Region, and Central Office levels).
Inmate petitions, group
demonstrations, sit-ins, and other such
group behavior are prohibited because
these behaviors involve multiple
inmates with goals of contravening
prison operations and management, and
as such, these activities pose a special
risk of disruption that does not exist
through the sanctioned, individual
administrative remedy complaint
system. Such unauthorized group
conduct threatens the safety, security,
and good order of the facility and the
protection of the public. This behavior
not only poses serious security risks, but
also undermines the effectiveness and
legitimacy of the Administrative
Remedy Program
Clarification of code 216, regarding
giving or offering an official or staff
member a bribe, or anything of value.
We propose to make a minor
modification to this code to clarify that
the prohibited conduct is giving or
offering a staff member something of
value to persuade or induce favor or
action, not simply giving anything of
value without such an expectation. This
is a more accurate statement of the
problematic conduct. We do not
propose to make substantive or
application changes to this code.
Clarification of code 218, regarding
destroying property.
Currently, code 218 prohibits
destroying, altering, or damaging
government property, or the property of
another person, having a value in excess
of $100.00, or destroying, altering,
damaging life-safety devices (e.g., fire
alarm) regardless of financial value. We
propose to make minor edits to the
language of this code to clarify that the
prohibited conduct is destroying,
altering, or damaging any of the
following: property valued over $100.00
belonging to the government or another
person; or property necessary for the
protection of life and/or safety (e.g., fire
alarms), regardless of financial value.
This proposal does not make
substantive changes or changes in
application of the code.
Modification of code 219, regarding
stealing and theft (including data
obtained through the unauthorized use
or access to any media or equipment on
which electronic data is stored).
We propose to modify High Severity
Level prohibited act code 219 regarding
stealing and theft to include theft of data
obtained through unauthorized use or
access to any media or equipment on
which electronic data is stored. Inmates
have previously been able to
compromise certain electronic storage
systems to obtain unauthorized
information to ‘‘check the paperwork’’
of other inmates—i.e., to find out
confidential information about another
inmate for the purpose of targeting that
inmate based on that confidential
information. Targeting of other inmates
based on this confidential information,
in turn, presents safety and security
concerns for inmates and staff due to the
possibility of violence or other unlawful
acts being committed upon the inmate
whose confidential information was
stolen.
Modification of code 221, regarding
being in an unauthorized area with a
person of the opposite sex without staff
permission.
We propose to modify the High
Severity Level prohibited act code 221,
being in an unauthorized area with a
person of the opposite sex without staff
permission, to clarify that inmates will
be disciplined for being in an
unauthorized area without staff
permission with any other person,
regardless of sex. This is a more
accurate statement of the prohibited
conduct and will not change the
application of this code.
Modification of code 224, regarding
assault that does not involve serious
physical injury.
Currently, this code prohibits
assaulting any person, but also contains
a parenthetical explanation that the
code should only be used when ‘‘less
serious physical injury or contact has
been attempted or accomplished.’’
Rather than leave it to the discretion of
staff to determine whether injuries are
‘‘less serious,’’ we propose to modify
this code to prohibit an assault of any
person that does not involve serious
physical injury, including nonconsensual touching.
We also propose this modification to
more clearly distinguish the behavior
prohibited by this code, which is in the
High Severity Level category, from the
proposed revision to Greatest Severity
Level code 101, which prohibits assault
and/or battery of any person involving
serious physical injury, or an armed
assault on the institution’s secure
perimeter.
The revised code 224 also prohibits
non-consensual touching, which is
currently encompassed by code 229,
sexual assault of any person, involving
non-consensual touching without force
or threat of force. Code 229 will be
reserved, as this prohibited conduct is
proposed to be encompassed by revised
code 224 and possibly revised code 114.
Modification of code 228, regarding
tattooing or self-mutilation.
We propose to modify the High
Severity Level prohibited act code 228,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00025 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6461
tattooing or self-mutilation, to clarify
that inmates will be disciplined for
body modification, including but not
limited to tattooing and piercing, and
possession of any paraphernalia and/or
tools for the use of any form of body
modification. The code description will
also include the caveat that this code
shall not be applied to acts of selfdirected violence (e.g., cutting).
This addition reflects the seriousness
of the conduct, the disruptive nature of
possession of such items, and the
potential health concerns resulting from
improper use. However, we also add the
caveat that this code is not to be used
in any instance involving self-directed
violence or harm. This clarification
reflects the Bureau’s recognition that an
inmate’s mental health symptoms,
including acute symptoms of
withdrawal from drugs or other
addictive substances, should not result
in disciplinary sanctions.
Reservation of code 229, regarding
sexual assault of any person, involving
non-consensual touching without force
or threat of force.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Addition of code 230, regarding
possession and/or use of tobacco or
related paraphernalia.
Currently, code 331 allows for
discipline for possession, manufacture,
introduction, or loss of a non-hazardous
tool,’’ including ‘‘smoking apparatus
and tobacco in any form where
prohibited . . .’’ [Emphasis added]. We
propose to remove the phrase ‘‘smoking
apparatus and tobacco in any form
where prohibited’’ and transfer it into
new code 230. We also propose to
clarify that smoking apparatus and
tobacco in any form may include, but is
not limited to, such items as vape
devices and other non-conventional
forms of delivery.
Increasing the severity level of
possession and/or use of tobacco or
related paraphernalia underscores the
seriousness of the offense. This is
necessary because since the last revision
of the prohibited act codes, 28 CFR
551.163 codified the prohibition of
possession of smoking apparatus and
tobacco in any form, unless as part of an
authorized religious activity.
Furthermore, since the last revision of
this code, the use of alternate forms of
delivery, such as vape pens, has become
more prevalent among inmates in
Bureau facilities, leading to further
introduction of this type of prohibited
contraband and increased security
issues.
Modification of code 231, regarding
requesting, demanding, pressuring, or
otherwise intentionally creating a
situation, which causes an inmate to
produce or display his/her own court
documents for any unauthorized
purpose to another inmate.
We propose to make two
modifications to code 231. We first
propose to amend the language of the
offense code to more accurately focus on
the coercive behavior involved when an
inmate seeks to obtain another inmate’s
personal court documents and
information for unauthorized purposes.
We also propose to include language
clarifying that some documents beyond
‘‘court documents’’ should be included
as part of this code. Sensitive
information about a particular inmate
(including Walsh Act information) may
appear on court documents or on noncourt documents, including, but not
limited to, PATTERN scoresheets. We
therefore propose to revise the code to
clarify that the prohibited conduct is
requesting, demanding, pressuring, or
otherwise creating a situation that
causes an inmate to produce or display
their own court documents or other
documents (e.g., PATTERN scoresheets)
that contain information about the
inmate’s current or prior offense(s) for
any unauthorized purpose to another
inmate.
Addition of code 232, regarding
introduction of any unauthorized nonhazardous item or contraband.
We propose to add a new High
Severity Level prohibited act code 232,
to underscore the seriousness of
introducing unauthorized items (i.e.,
contraband) into a correctional setting.
Introduction of unauthorized items
cannot be monitored for their potential
in creating a hazardous environment for
both staff and inmates; even seemingly
harmless, non Bureau-purchased items
like cosmetic products or cleaning
supplies may contain harmful chemicals
or other dangerous substances that pose
health, safety, and security risks to all
individuals within the correctional
setting.
Another institutional security
consideration involves the unintended
consequences of introduction of certain
contraband into a correctional facility,
including the creation or perpetuation
of an unauthorized series of financial
transactions. One example includes an
inmate obtaining cosmetic items and
dietary supplements and then marking
up the price substantially to sell to other
inmates who are unable to purchase
such items through the official
commissary. Then, the inmate who
purchases the contraband from another
inmate may owe a debt, which, if left
unpaid, can create the precise type of
volatile situation that may cause
violence to erupt and risk the safety of
both inmates and staff.
This new code is designed to thwart
contraband introduction and minimize
the risks to the health and safety of
Bureau inmates, staff, and members of
the public.
Addition of code 235, regarding
communicating gang affiliation,
participating in gang-related activities,
and possession of paraphernalia
indicating gang affiliation.
We propose to increase the severity
level of current code 335,
communicating gang affiliation,
participating in gang-related activities,
or possession of paraphernalia
indicating gang affiliation, from the
Moderate Severity Level category to the
High Severity Level category. This
change is proposed to underscore the
seriousness of the offense, as the
existence of gangs jeopardizes the
safety, security, and good order of
Bureau facilities.
Addition of code 294, regarding
unauthorized use of social media.
We propose to create a new High
Severity Level prohibited act code (294)
for accessing, using, or maintaining
social media, or directing others to
establish or maintain social media
accounts on the inmate’s behalf
(including, but not limited to the
following: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
Snapchat, TikTok, etc. or any
successor). In contrast to proposed code
194, code 294 acts will not involve
commission or aid in the commission of
any criminal act or any Greatest
category prohibited act.
Addition of code 295, regarding use of
video visits for abuses other than
criminal activity.
We propose to create a new High
Severity Level prohibited act code
which prohibits use of video visits for
abuses other than criminal activity,
including, but not limited to, conduct
that circumvents established video visit
session monitoring procedures; conduct
that permits communication with
individuals other than the authorized
visitors; conduct that would be
unauthorized if it were to occur in an
in-person visiting room; or use of the
video session to commit or further
another High category prohibited act.
We propose the addition of this code
to deter abuses of any video visiting
system in place at a Bureau facility,
such as sharing passwords, not logging
off the system, nudity; and/or use of
visual and/or verbal communicated
actions by the inmate or approved
contact such as hand/body gestures
outside of general sign language.
General sign language is not limited to
American Sign language and includes
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00026 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6462 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
‘‘home signs’’—i.e., communicative
gestures invented or created by a Deaf
person within their own family—as well
as other visual or tactual
communication forms that might be
used by certified Deaf interpreters or
other individuals who are Deaf or Hard
of Hearing. General sign language does
not include gang signs/signals, sexual
acts/gestures/innuendos, prohibited
substance/drug use, etc.
The Bureau adds this code to account
for advances in technology that have
allowed for the use of video visiting by
inmates as an alternative to telephonic
communication and visiting room
visitation. This code is necessary for
infractions similar to those addressed by
codes 296 and 297, which address
similar conduct for use of the mail and
telephone for such abuses ‘‘other than
criminal activity which circumvent’’
monitoring or to ‘‘commit or further a
High category prohibited act.’’
Expansion of code 296, regarding use
of the mail for abuses other than
criminal activity.
Current code 296 allows for discipline
for use of the mail for abuses other than
criminal activity that circumvent mail
monitoring procedures (e.g., use of the
mail to commit or further a High
category prohibited act, special mail
abuse; writing letters in code; directing
others to send, sending, or receiving a
letter or mail through unauthorized
means; sending mail for other inmates
without authorization; sending
correspondence to a specific address
with directions or intent to have the
correspondence sent to an unauthorized
person; and using a fictitious return
address in an attempt to send or receive
unauthorized correspondence).
We propose to expand this code to
include misuse of any form of electronic
mail and messaging, including, but not
limited to, messaging through the
TRULINCS system. The Bureau makes
this addition to account for advances in
technology that have allowed for the use
of electronic mail by inmates as an
alternative to written correspondence
and telephone communication. This
change is necessary to discipline for
infractions similarly to current code
296, and 297, ‘‘Use of the telephone for
abuses other than illegal activity which
circumvent the ability of staff to monitor
frequency of telephone use, content of
the call, or the number called; or to
commit or further a High category
prohibited act.’’
Reservation of code 300, regarding
indecent exposure.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Clarification of code 313, regarding
lying or providing a false statement to
a staff member.
We propose to modify this code to
clarify that the prohibited conduct is
providing a false statement to a staff
member and includes feigning illness.
This is a more accurate description of
the prohibited behavior. Adding
feigning illness to this code will serve
to deter false inmate reports of illness,
which not only subvert the inmate’s
rehabilitative programming
requirements, but also have the
potential to unnecessarily burden both
staff and medical professionals and
cause unnecessary expenditures.
Combination of code 324, regarding
gambling, with code 325, preparing and
conducting a gambling pool, and code
326, possession of gambling
paraphernalia.
We propose to combine these three
codes into one code 324, describing the
prohibited conduct as gambling,
possession of gambling paraphernalia,
or preparing or conducting a gambling
pool. The previous separation of these
three types of conduct was unnecessary,
as the conduct described is
interconnected.
Clarification of code 331 to remove
reference to smoking ‘‘where
prohibited.’’
Currently, code 331 prohibits
possession, manufacture, introduction,
or loss of a non-hazardous tool,
equipment, supplies, or other nonhazardous contraband (tools not likely
to be used in an escape or escape
attempt, or to serve as a weapon capable
of doing serious bodily harm to others,
or not hazardous to institutional
security or personal safety) (other nonhazardous contraband includes such
items as food, cosmetics, cleaning
supplies, smoking apparatus and
tobacco in any form where prohibited,
and unauthorized nutritional/dietary
supplements)’’ [Emphasis added].
We propose to remove the phrase
‘‘smoking apparatus and tobacco in any
form where prohibited’’ and increase
the severity level of this prohibited
conduct to create High Severity code
230. We also eliminate/delete code
332—Smoking where prohibited,
because smoking apparatus is
prohibited and smoking is functionally
disallowed for inmates unless part of an
authorized religious activity. See 28
CFR 551.162–.163.
We also propose to streamline the
conduct description in this code to
prohibit possession, manufacture or loss
of a non-hazardous item or contraband,
further explaining in the parenthetical
that the term ‘‘non-hazardous item or
contraband’’ includes, but is not limited
to, items not likely to be used in an
escape; items not likely to serve as a
weapon capable of doing serious bodily
harm to others; items not hazardous to
institutional security or personal safety;
unauthorized food, cosmetics, cleaning
supplies, and unauthorized nutritional/
dietary supplements.
Reservation of code 332, regarding
smoking where prohibited.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Reservation of code 335, regarding
communicating gang affiliation;
participating in gang related activities;
possession of paraphernalia indicating
gang affiliation.
We propose to delete this code as
explained above.
Addition of code 337, increasing
severity level for code 404, regarding
using abusive or obscene language.
We propose to increase the severity
level of Low Severity Level code 404,
using abusive or obscene language, to
Moderate Severity Level prohibited act
code 338. This code will be moved to
the 300 level because, as will be
explained below, we propose to
eliminate the Low Severity Level
prohibited act code (400) series entirely.
We note that this code does not apply
to use of abusive or obscene language
uttered or written by an inmate with a
relevant disability (e.g., Tourette
Syndrome).’’
Addition of code 338, increasing
severity level for codes 407 & 409,
regarding conduct with a visitor in
violation of Bureau regulations and
unauthorized physical contact (e.g.,
kissing, embracing).
We propose to increase the severity
level of Low Severity Level code 407
and 409 for inappropriate conduct in
the visiting room. These codes would
combine to become Moderate Severity
Level prohibited act code 338,
‘‘unauthorized conduct in the visiting
room (e.g., kissing, embracing, etc.).’’
Also, as explained below, we propose to
eliminate the Low Severity Level
prohibited act code (400) series entirely.
These changes will be further explained
below.
Addition of electronic mail to code
396, regarding use of the mail for abuses
other than criminal activity.
Current code 396 allows for discipline
for use of the mail for abuses other than
criminal activity that do not circumvent
mail monitoring; or use of the mail to
commit or further a Moderate category
prohibited act. We propose to add
‘‘electronic mail’’ to this code to account
for advances in technology that have
allowed for the use of electronic mail by
inmates as an alternative to written
correspondence and telephone
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00027 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6463
communication. The term ‘‘electronic
mail’’ shall include any form of
electronic mail and messaging,
including, but not limited to, messaging
through the TRULINCS system. This
change is necessary for infractions
similar to those addressed by code 396,
for misuse of the mail.
Reservation of code 397, regarding
use of the telephone for abuses other
than illegal activity which do not
circumvent the ability of staff to monitor
frequency of telephone use, content of
the call, or the number called; or to
commit or further a Moderate category
prohibited act.
We propose to delete this prohibited
act code because it has been misused to
prohibit conduct that actually has
already circumvented the ability of staff
to monitor telephone use, rather than
activity that has the potential to
circumvent monitoring.
This code had been misunderstood as
a less-severe version of code 297, which
allows for discipline of conduct that
circumvents monitoring for an illegal
purpose. Inmates have been identified
as having committed prohibited acts
that would result in circumvention of
telephone monitoring but did not
actually result in circumvention of
monitoring. These inmates were then
downgraded or shown leniency by being
charged with a 397-level code instead of
the appropriate 297-level code. For this
reason, we eliminate the 397 code to
avoid confusion and to clarify that
inmates should be disciplined for any
conduct that may circumvent the ability
of staff to monitor communications,
regardless of whether monitoring is
actually circumvented.
Reservation of the Low Severity Level
prohibited act codes (400 series).
We propose to delete the Low
Severity Level prohibited act code (400)
series entirely. Currently, there are six
active codes listed, which we propose to
remove for the following reasons:
‘‘402 Malingering, feigning illness.’’
We propose to remove this prohibited
act code because malingering does not
typically require disciplinary action.
However, because feigning an illness
equates to lying or providing a false
statement to a staff member, we have
incorporated that portion of this code
into code 313 above.
‘‘404 Using abusive or obscene
language.’’ As described earlier, we
propose to increase the severity level of
Low Severity Level code 404, using
abusive or obscene language, to
Moderate Severity Level prohibited act
code 337. Further, because we have
significantly reduced the level of
disciplinary segregation sanction that
may be imposed for the Moderate
Severity Level prohibited act codes, it
must be noted that moving this conduct
from the ‘‘Low’’ to the ‘‘Moderate’’
category does not change the severity of
potential sanctions that may be
imposed. Further, staff will be
instructed that the inmate’s level of
misconduct must be greater than that
previously triggering an incident report
for a ‘‘Low’’ prohibited act code.
‘‘407 Conduct with a visitor in
violation of Bureau regulations’’ and
‘‘409 Unauthorized physical contact
(e.g., kissing, embracing).’’ As described
earlier, we propose to increase the
severity level of Low Severity Level
code 407 and 409 for inappropriate
conduct in the visiting room. These
codes would combine to become
Moderate Severity Level prohibited act
code 338, ‘‘unauthorized conduct in the
visiting room (e.g., kissing, embracing,
etc.).’’
Because we have significantly
reduced the level of disciplinary
segregation sanction that may be
imposed for the Moderate Severity Level
prohibited act codes, it must be noted
that moving this conduct from the
‘‘Low’’ to the ‘‘Moderate’’ category does
not change the severity of potential
sanctions that may be imposed. Because
we increase the seriousness of the
offense, staff will be instructed that the
inmate’s level of misconduct must be
greater than that previously triggering
an incident report for either of the two
previous 400-level ‘‘Low’’ prohibited act
codes.
‘‘498 Interfering with a staff member
in the performance of duties most like
another Low Severity prohibited act’’
and ‘‘499 Conduct which disrupts or
interferes with the security or orderly
running of the institution or the Bureau
of Prisons most like another Low
Severity prohibited act.’’ Both of these
codes indicate that they are ‘‘to be used
only when another charge of Low
Severity is not accurate. The offending
conduct must be charged as ‘most like’
one of the listed Low Severity
prohibited acts.’’ We propose to
eliminate these codes because they are
vague and because the conduct
described is more accurately specified
by other codes listed in the Greatest,
High, and Moderate Severity prohibited
act codes.
Because we propose to delete the Low
Severity Level, we likewise propose to
delete language relating to the Low
Severity Level in Table 2 to § 541.3—
Additional Available Sanctions for
repeated Prohibited Acts Within the
Same Severity Level.
Modifications to the disciplinary
segregation sanction.
In the mid-2000s, the Bureau
experienced a spike in prison violence,
including the murder of a correctional
officer. In response, the Bureau
implemented several additional
measures, including harsher penalties
for inmates who violated disciplinary
rules. In particular, this approach
resulted in regulation changes that
increased the length of maximum
possible time for the penalties of
disciplinary segregation time (75 FR
76263, December 8, 2010; effective on
March 1, 2011).
Maximum terms of segregation under
current Bureau regulations are as
follows:
Severity level First offense
Subsequent
offense(s)
(days)
Greatest (100) ............................................................................. 12 months (365 days) ................................................................ 545
High (200) ................................................................................... 6 months (180 days) .................................................................. 365
Moderate (300) ........................................................................... 3 months (90 days) .................................................................... 180
Low (400) .................................................................................... Not permitted ............................................................................. 30
After 2011, the Bureau experienced a
decline in its restrictive housing
population, which coincided with a
reduction in inmate-on-staff assaults at
Bureau facilities. The chart below
compares the number of inmates in
segregation to the total prison
population between January 2012 and
August 2021, illustrating the decline in
restrictive housing population.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6464 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
OVERVIEW OF BUREAU’S RESTRICTIVE HOUSING
[Adapted from Bureau’s SENTRY Recordkeeping System]
Type of housing 01/28/12 08/05/21
Change
Total reduction % Decline
All Bureau inmates .......................................................................................... 175,244 138,235 37,009 21.12
Total in Restrictive Housing ............................................................................. 13,196 10,236 2,960 22.43
Special Housing Units (SHU) .......................................................................... 11,106 9,361 1,745 15.71
Special Management Unit (SMU) .................................................................... 1,647 533 1,114 67.64
Administrative Maximum (ADX) ....................................................................... 443 342 101 22.80
As a result of the decline in
imposition of the disciplinary
segregation sanction, the Report
recommended that the Bureau reduce
the maximum time an inmate can be
placed in segregation as a sanction for
a disciplinary infraction. The Report
recommended elimination of the
disciplinary segregation sanction for all
400-level prohibited acts, and for an
inmate’s first adjudicated violation of all
300-level prohibited acts, and that the
Bureau reclassify some 300-level
prohibited acts as 200-level acts due to
the more serious nature of these
offenses. The following chart illustrates
the recommendations of the Report:
Offense type
Current maximum penalties Proposed maximum penalties
First offense
(days)
Subsequent
(days)
First offense
(days)
Subsequent
(days)
100-Level ......................................................................................................... 365 545 60 90
200-Level (High) .............................................................................................. 180 365 30 60
300-Level ......................................................................................................... 0 180 0 15
400-Level (Low) ............................................................................................... 0 30
Therefore, the Bureau now proposes
that maximum penalties for disciplinary
segregation sanctions for Greatest, High,
and Moderate prohibited act codes be
decreased as suggested in the Report
(see chart above). This would effectively
undo the change to disciplinary
segregation sanction maximums made
by the final rule of 2011.
This change would result in changes
to 28 CFR 541.3, Table 1 to § 541.3—
Prohibited Acts and Available
Sanctions, in the ‘‘Available Sanctions’’
listed for each severity level prohibited
acts category. The disciplinary
segregation sanction is listed in each
‘‘Available Sanctions’’ sub-table as item
C. and would be modified according to
the chart shown above. Likewise, 28
CFR 541.3 Table 2 to § 541.3—
Additional Available Sanctions for
Repeated Prohibited Acts Within the
Same Severity Level, would be similarly
modified to reflect the chart shown
above.
Changes to Loss of Privilege
Sanctions.
In 28 CFR 541.3 Table 1 to § 541.3—
Prohibited Acts and Available
Sanctions, each severity level of
prohibited act codes is followed by a
table listing available sanctions that may
be imposed on inmates if they are found
to have committed those acts by DHOs.
One such sanction found in each table
is the ‘‘loss of privileges’’ sanction. In
each ‘‘available sanctions’’ list, the ‘‘loss
of privileges’’ sanction is followed by a
descriptive parenthetical, as follows:
‘‘Loss of privileges (e.g., visiting,
telephone, commissary, movies,
recreation).’’
We now propose to add to that
descriptive parenthetical the following
additional examples of privileges that
may be removed as a potential sanction:
video visits, electronic device(s), and
the use of electronic mail and messaging
of any kind, including, but not limited
to, through the TRULINCS system. We
add these terms to accommodate
advances in technology and to clarify
that the Bureau views these items as
privileges for inmates. However, the
Bureau emphasizes that none of these
sanctions should affect an inmate’s right
to counsel and the ability of an inmate
to meet or otherwise communicate with
counsel. Accordingly, the Bureau
clarifies that no employee may impose
as a sanction any measure whatsoever
that restricts an inmate’s right of access
to counsel.
Amendments to Table 2 to § 541.3—
Additional Available Sanctions for
Repeated Prohibited Acts Within the
Same Severity Level.
In addition to eliminating references
to Low Severity Level (400-series)
prohibited acts as described above, we
propose the following changes to Table
2: First, we propose to change second
column heading from ‘‘Time period for
prior offense (same code)’’ to ‘‘Time
period for Prior Offense (same severity
level).’’ We make this change because it
has been misinterpreted as applying
only to commission of the same specific
code conduct. Instead, the application is
intended to apply to commission of any
prior offense within the same severity
level as the first or second offense. In
other words, if an inmate was found to
have violated code 396, some staff
mistakenly assumed that if the same
inmate then violated code 334, the
available sanctions in the table would
not apply. This proposed change is
meant to clarify that if an inmate is
found to have committed a prohibited
act in any severity level, and then
commits any other prohibited act within
the same severity level, whether it is the
same actual code number or not, the
inmate may be subject to additional
sanctions for this additional prohibited
conduct.
Second, we modify the time periods
for additional available sanctions in
each severity level to decrease the
amount of disciplinary segregation time,
as described above.
Third, to correct an oversight in
changes made to conform to the
requirements of the First Step Act of
2018, we amend Table 2 to indicate that
if an inmate commits the same Moderate
Severity Level (300-series) offense,
thereby violating the same prohibited
act code within six months, up to seven
days of FSA Earned Time Credits may
be forfeited; and if an inmate commits
a third violation of the same Moderate
Severity Level prohibited act code
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6465
within six months, the inmate may
forfeit up to fourteen days of FSA
Earned Time Credits. This amendment
is consistent with the Bureau’s
regulations regarding FSA Earned Time
Credit, as published at 87 FR 2705 (Jan.
19, 2022). No substantive changes are
made to the sanctions as published in
that regulation; rather, language relating
to subsequent offenses of the same
prohibited act code has been moved
from Table 1 to Table 2, which is the
correct location.
Amendments to 28 CFR 541.5,
regarding the discipline process.
Currently, 28 CFR 541.5(a), describing
the incident report, explains that the
disciplinary process begins when staff
reasonably believe the inmate has
committed a prohibited act. We make a
minor stylistic edit to the language
regarding the composition of the
incident report but make no substantive
changes to this section. Likewise, we
make similar stylistic edits to language
in subparagraph (b) describing the
investigation process, but do not change
the substance of this regulation, or its
application.
Amendments to 28 CFR 541.7,
regarding unit discipline committee
review.
We propose to clarify when the Unit
Discipline Committee (UDC) will review
the incident report. Currently, 28 CFR
541.7(c) indicates that the UDC
ordinarily reviews the incident report
‘‘within five work days after it is issued,
not counting the day it was issued,
weekends, and holidays.’’ Inmates and
staff found that description confusing
and problematic, due to disparity
between the time staff become aware of
incidents and when incident reports are
actually issued. At times, incident
reports cannot be issued immediately
for various reasons, including time and
attention needed to resolve the situation
that led to the incident in question.
Therefore, we propose to clarify that
the UDC will ordinarily review the
incident report within five work days
‘‘after the day staff become aware of the
inmate’s involvement in the incident,
not counting the day staff became aware
of the inmate’s involvement, weekends,
or holidays.’’ This will result in more
immediate action and less confusion
regarding discipline.
We also propose to make a minor
change to 28 CFR 541.7(f), to clarify that
the UDC may not impose monetary
restitution as a sanction for inmate
disciplinary infractions. Subparagraph
(f) of 28 CFR 541.7 currently indicates
that the UDC may impose ‘‘any of the
available sanctions listed in Tables 1
and 2, except loss of good conduct
sentence credit, disciplinary
segregation, or monetary fines.’’ We
propose to add ‘‘monetary restitution’’
to this list in order to clarify for staff
that this is a sanction that may only be
imposed at the DHO level. This is not
a change to current practice or the
substance of regulation, but rather a
technical correction.
Clarification of 28 CFR 541.8,
regarding hearings by Discipline
Hearing Officers.
We make a minor change to the
language of 28 CFR 541.8(a)(3) to clarify
that the incident report may be referred
back to the UDC for further
investigation, review, disposition, or
other action as recommended or
necessary. This more accurately states
the purpose of this section, but makes
no substantive changes or changes in
application.
II. Regulatory Analyses
Executive Orders 12866, 13563, and
14094 (Regulatory Review)
The Department has determined that
this rulemaking is a ‘‘significant
regulatory action’’ under section 3(f) of
Executive Order 12866, Regulatory
Planning and Review, but it is not a
section 3(f)(1) significant action.
Accordingly, this proposed rule has
been submitted to the Office of
Management and Budget (‘‘OMB’’) for
review. This proposed rule has been
drafted and reviewed in accordance
with Executive Order 12866,
‘‘Regulatory Planning and Review,’’
section 1(b), Principles of Regulation; in
accordance with Executive Order 13563,
‘‘Improving Regulation and Regulatory
Review,’’ section 1(b), General
Principles of Regulation, and in
accordance with Executive Order 14094,
‘‘Modernizing Regulatory Review’’.
Executive Order 12988 (Plain Language)
This proposed rule meets the
applicable standards set forth in
sections 3(a) and 3(b)(2) of Executive
Order 12988, ‘‘Civil Justice Reform.’’
Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)
This regulation will not have
substantial direct effects on the States,
on the relationship between the national
government and the States, or on
distribution of power and
responsibilities among the various
levels of government. Therefore, under
Executive Order 13132, we determine
that this regulation does not have
sufficient federalism implications to
warrant the preparation of a Federalism
Assessment.
Regulatory Flexibility Act
The Director of the Bureau of Prisons,
under the Regulatory Flexibility Act (5
U.S.C. 605(b)), reviewed this regulation
and certifies that it will not have a
significant economic impact upon a
substantial number of small entities for
the following reasons: This regulation
pertains to the correctional management
of inmates committed to the custody of
the Attorney General or the Director of
the Bureau of Prisons. Its economic
impact is limited to the Bureau’s
appropriated funds.
Since January 2012, the Bureau has
reduced the total number of inmates in
restrictive housing by nearly 25 percent.
The Department estimates that the
changes made by this proposed rule will
result in additional substantial
reductions in the Bureau’s restrictive
housing population. Although it is
impossible to quantify the exact size of
the future reductions, the Department
notes that other state and local
correctional systems implementing
reforms, including those jurisdictions
discussed earlier in this Report, have
reported reductions in their restrictive
housing populations in recent years by
nearly 50 percent or more.
Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of 1995
This regulation will not result in the
expenditure by State, local and tribal
governments, in the aggregate, or by the
private sector, of $100,000,000 or more
in any one year, and it will not
significantly or uniquely affect small
governments. Therefore, no actions were
deemed necessary under the provisions
of the Unfunded Mandates Reform Act
of 1995.
Congressional Review Act
This rule is not a major rule as
defined by 5 U.S.C. 804 of the
Congressional Review Act. This
regulation will not result in an annual
effect on the economy of $100,000,000
or more; a major increase in costs or
prices; or significant adverse effects on
competition, employment, investment,
productivity, innovation, or on the
ability of United States-based
companies to compete with foreignbased companies in domestic and
export markets.
List of Subjects in 28 CFR Part 541
Prisoners.
Colette S. Peters,
Director, Federal Bureau of Prisons.
Under rulemaking authority vested in
the Attorney General in 5 U.S.C. 301; 28
U.S.C. 509, 510 and delegated to the
Director, Bureau of Prisons, we propose
to amend 28 CFR part 541 as follows:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6466 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
PART 541—INMATE DISCIPLINE AND
SPECIAL HOUSING UNITS
■ 1. The authority citation for part 541
continues to read as follows:
Authority: 5 U.S.C. 301; 18 U.S.C. 3621,
3622, 3624, 4001, 4042, 4081, 4082 (Repealed
in part as to offenses committed on or after
November 1, 1987), 4161–4166 (Repealed as
to offenses committed on or after November
1, 1987), 5006–5024 (Repealed October 12,
1984 as to offenses committed after that
date), 5039; 28 U.S.C. 509, 510.
Subpart A—Inmate Discipline Program
■ 2. Revise § 541.1 to read as follows:
§ 541.1 Purpose.
(a) Nothing in this subpart shall be
construed to create a private right of
action or otherwise permit civil claims
for alleged violations.
(b) The purpose of the inmate
discipline program is to help ensure the
safety, security, and orderly operation of
correctional facilities, and the
protection of the public, by sanctioning
inmates who commit prohibited acts.
(c) The purpose of this subpart is to
describe the inmate discipline program
of the Federal Bureau of Prisons
(Bureau), authorized by 18 U.S.C.
4042(a)(3), and to ensure that
disciplinary sanctions will not be
imposed in a capricious or retaliatory
manner.
(d) Consistent with the Rehabilitation
Act of 1973, for all discipline cases, the
Unit Discipline Committee or
Disciplinary Hearing Officer shall
consider the individual inmate’s mental
health and disabilities when
determining the appropriateness of
sanctions.
■ 3. Revise § 541.2 to read as follows:
§ 541.2 Application.
(a) Staff authorized to implement the
Inmate Discipline Program. For the
purposes of this subpart, ‘‘staff’’ means
staff authorized by the Bureau to
implement the inmate discipline
program as described in this subpart.
Residential Reentry Center employees
are staff authorized to implement the
Inmate Discipline Program.
(b) Application of the Inmate
Discipline Program. This program
applies to sentenced and unsentenced
inmates in:
(1) Bureau custody; and
(2) Any prison, institution, or facility,
including community confinement
facilities, in which persons are held in
custody by direction of, or under an
agreement with, the Bureau of Prisons.
■ 4. Revise § 541.3 to read as follows:
§ 541.3 Prohibited acts and available
sanctions.
(a) Prohibited acts. The list of
prohibited acts is divided into three
separate categories based on severity:
Greatest; High; and Moderate.
(b) Available sanctions. The list of
available sanctions for committing
prohibited acts is listed in Table 1 to
this section—Prohibited Acts and
Available Sanctions. If you commit
repetitive prohibited acts, we can
impose increased sanctions, as listed in
Table 2 to this section—Additional
Available Sanctions for Repeated
Prohibited Acts Within the Same
Severity Level. No Bureau employee
may impose as a sanction any measure
whatsoever that restricts an inmate’s
right of access to counsel.
Table 1 to § 541.3—Prohibited Acts and
Available Sanctions
Greatest Severity Level Prohibited Acts
101 An attempted or accomplished
assault and/or battery of any person
involving serious physical injury, or an
armed assault on the institution’s secure
perimeter.
102 Escape (unauthorized departure
from custody), including, but not
limited to, any of the following:
unauthorized departure from the
buildings, lands, property or perimeter
(inside or outside) of any secure or nonsecure facility; unauthorized departure
from community confinement, work
detail, program or activity (whether
escorted or unescorted); and
unauthorized departure from any
authorized location regardless of
electronic monitoring devices.
103 Causing ignition or combustion
(including, but not limited to, fire or
explosion) which threatens serious
bodily harm; or is done in furtherance
of another Greatest Severity Level
prohibited act.
104 Possession, manufacture, or
introduction of any item that has been
weaponized (including, but not limited
to, firearms, sharpened instruments,
unauthorized blades, explosives,
ammunition, unauthorized chemicals,
or any other item that has been modified
in order to be used as a weapon).
105 Rioting; promoting rioting; or
encouraging others to participate in a
riot (‘‘riot’’ is defined as a disturbance
with two or more people which involves
violence or threats of violence or
damage to government property, for the
purpose of preventing or coercing
official action).
106 (Not to be used).
107 Taking hostage(s).
108 Use, possession, manufacture,
introduction, or loss of a hazardous
item, including, but not limited to,
items which may facilitate escape; cause
serious bodily harm to others; or are
otherwise hazardous to institutional
security or personal safety (e.g.,
hacksaw blade, body armor, maps
which could facilitate escape,
handmade rope, or other escape
paraphernalia, portable telephone,
pager, other electronic device or items
necessary in the use of these devices).
109 (Not to be used).
110 Refusing to provide a urine
sample or take part in any narcotics or
drug testing.
111 Introduction or manufacture of
any narcotics, marijuana, drugs, or
related paraphernalia, not prescribed for
the individual by authorized medical
staff.
112 Use of any narcotics, marijuana,
drugs, or related paraphernalia, not
prescribed for the individual by
authorized medical staff.
113 Possession of any narcotics,
marijuana, drugs, or related
paraphernalia, not currently prescribed
for the individual by authorized medical
staff.
114 Sexually explicit conduct
involving force, threat of force, or threat
of harm; or sexually explicit conduct
without consent or through coercion; or
attempts thereof. This definition
encompasses, but is not limited to,
conduct that rises to the level of assault
and sexually explicit conduct that staff
have observed and instructed an inmate
to cease. The term ‘‘sexually explicit
conduct’’ means actual or simulated—
(i) sexual intercourse, including
genital-genital, oral-genital, anal-genital,
or oral-anal, whether between persons
of the same or opposite sex;
(ii) bestiality;
(iii) masturbation;
(iv) sadistic or masochistic abuse; or
(v) lascivious exhibition of the anus,
genitals, or pubic area of any person.
115 Destroying and/or disposing of
any item during a search or attempt to
search.
116 Refusing to breathe into a
breathalyzer or take part in any alcohol
or intoxicant testing.
117 Introduction or manufacture of
any alcohol, intoxicants, or related
paraphernalia not prescribed for the
individual by authorized medical staff.
118 Use of any alcohol, intoxicants,
or related paraphernalia not currently
prescribed for the individual by
authorized medical staff.
119 Possession of any alcohol,
intoxicants, or related paraphernalia not
currently prescribed for the individual
by authorized medical staff.
194 Accessing, using, or maintaining
social media accounts (including, but
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00031 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6467
not limited to the following: Facebook,
Twitter, Instagram, Snapchat, TikTok,
etc.), or directing others to establish or
maintain social media accounts on the
inmate’s behalf for the purpose of
committing or aiding in the commission
of a criminal act; of committing or
aiding in the commission of any
Greatest category prohibited act; or of
circumventing authorized
communications monitoring for the
purpose of committing or aiding in the
commission of a criminal act or of any
Greatest category prohibited act. This
code also prohibits inmates’ use of fund
transfer services such as CashApp, as
explained in more detail below.
195 Use of video visits to commit or
aid in the commission of a criminal act
or any Greatest category prohibited act.
196 Use of the mail or any form of
electronic mail and messaging
(including messaging through the
TRULINCS system), for an illegal
purpose or to commit or further a
Greatest Severity Level prohibited act.
197 Use of the telephone for an
illegal purpose or to commit or further
a Greatest category prohibited act.
198 Interfering with a staff member
in the performance of duties most like
another Greatest severity prohibited act.
This charge is to be used only when
another charge of Greatest severity is not
accurate. The offending conduct must
be charged as ‘‘most like’’ one of the
listed Greatest severity prohibited acts.
199 Conduct which disrupts or
interferes with the security or orderly
running of the institution or the Bureau
of Prisons most like another Greatest
severity prohibited act. This charge is to
be used only when another charge of
Greatest severity is not accurate. The
offending conduct must be charged as
‘‘most like’’ one of the listed Greatest
severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for Greatest
Severity Level Prohibited Acts
A. Recommend parole date rescission
or retardation.
B. Forfeit and/or withhold earned
statutory good time or non-vested good
conduct time (up to 100%) and/or
terminate or disallow extra good time
(an extra good time or good conduct
time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1. Disallow ordinarily between 50%
and 75% (27–41 days) of good conduct
time credit available for year (a good
conduct time sanction may not be
suspended).
B.2 Forfeit up to 41 days of earned
First Step Act (FSA) Time Credits (see
28 CFR part 523, subpart E) for each
prohibited act committed.
C. Disciplinary segregation (up to 60
days).
D. Make monetary restitution.
E. Monetary fine.
F. Loss of privileges (e.g., visiting,
video visits, telephone, commissary,
movies, recreation, electronic device(s),
electronic mail, electronic messaging
through the TRULINCS system).
G. Change housing (quarters).
H. Remove from program and/or
group activity.
I. Loss of job.
J. Impound inmate’s personal
property.
K. Confiscate contraband.
L. Restrict to quarters.
M. Extra duty.
High Severity Level Prohibited Acts
200 (Not to be used).
201 Fighting, defined as a hostile
physical or verbal encounter between
two or more persons.
202 Possession of any forms that
may be used in the fraudulent filing of
Uniform Commercial Code liens, or
attempting to publicly disclose the
private information of others for
unlawful purposes.
203 Communicating intent to
jeopardize the safety, security, and
orderly operation of a Bureau facility,
the public, or the person or property of
another.
204 Extortion, blackmail, or
otherwise demanding or receiving
anything of value through use of actual
or threatened force, violence, fear, or
intimidation.
205 (Not to be used).
206 (Not to be used).
207 Wearing a disguise or a mask.
208 Possession of any unauthorized
locking device, or lock pick, or
tampering with or blocking any lock
device (includes keys), or destroying,
altering, interfering with, improperly
using, or damaging any security device,
mechanism, or procedure.
209 Adulteration of any food or
drink.
210 Possession of sexually explicit
material.
211 Possessing any officer’s or staff
clothing.
212 Participating or promoting
others to participate with two or more
persons in unauthorized behavior,
whether planned or unplanned
(including, but not limited to, group
demonstrations, sit-ins, refusing to eat,
creating or circulating a petition, refusal
to work, work stoppage, etc.).
213 (Not to be used).
214 (Not to be used).
215 (Not to be used).
216 Giving or offering a staff
member something of value to persuade
or induce favor or action.
217 Giving money to, or receiving
money from, any person for the purpose
of introducing contraband or any other
illegal or prohibited purpose.
218 Destroying, altering, or
damaging any of the following: property
valued over $100.00 belonging to the
government or another person; property
necessary for the protection of life and/
or safety (e.g., fire alarms), regardless of
financial value.
219 Stealing; theft (including data
obtained through the unauthorized use
or access to any media or equipment on
which electronic data is stored).
220 Demonstrating, practicing, or
using martial arts, boxing (except for use
of a punching bag), wrestling, or other
forms of physical encounter, or military
exercises or drill (except for drill
authorized by staff).
221 Being in an unauthorized area
with another person without staff
permission.
222 (Not to be used).
223 (Not to be used).
224 An assault of any person not
involving serious physical injury,
including non-consensual touching.
225 Stalking another person through
repeated behavior which harasses,
alarms, or annoys the person, after
having been previously warned to stop
such conduct.
226 Possession of stolen property.
227 Refusing to participate in a
required physical test or examination
unrelated to testing for drug abuse (e.g.,
DNA, HIV, tuberculosis).
228 Body modification (including,
but not limited to tattooing and
piercing); and possession of any
paraphernalia and/or tools for the use of
any form of body modification.) This
code shall not be applied to acts of selfdirected violence (e.g., cutting), nor
shall it apply to any instance in which
an inmate self-directs violence or harm.
229 (Not to be used).
230 Possession or use of smoking
apparatus and tobacco in any form
(including, but not limited to, vape
devices and other non-conventional
forms of delivery), or related
paraphernalia.
231 Requesting, demanding, or
pressuring an inmate to produce or
display his/her own court documents or
other documents (e.g., PATTERN
scoresheets) that contain information
about the inmate’s current or prior
offense(s) for any unauthorized purpose
to another inmate.
232 Introduction of any
unauthorized non-hazardous item or
contraband. (‘‘Non-hazardous items or
contraband’’ include, but are not limited
to, items not likely to facilitate escape;
cause serious bodily harm to others; or
otherwise be hazardous to institutional
security or personal safety, e.g., food,
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00032 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6468 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
cosmetics, cleaning supplies,
unauthorized nutritional/dietary
supplements.)
235 Communicating gang affiliation;
participating in gang related activities;
possession of paraphernalia indicating
gang affiliation.
294 Accessing, using, or maintaining
social media, or directing others to
establish or maintain social media
accounts on the inmate’s behalf
(including, but not limited to the
following: Facebook, Twitter, Instagram,
Snapchat, TikTok, etc. or any
successor).
295 Use of video visits for abuses
other than criminal activity, including,
but not limited to, conduct which
circumvents established video visit
session monitoring procedures; conduct
which permits communication with
individuals other than the authorized
visitors; conduct which would be
unauthorized if it were to occur in an
in-person visiting room; or use of the
video session to commit or further a
High category prohibited act.
296 Use of the mail, including
electronic mail and messaging (e.g.,
messaging through the TRULINCS
system) for abuses other than criminal
activity which circumvent mail
monitoring procedures (e.g., use of the
mail or email to commit or further a
High category prohibited act, special
mail abuse; writing letters or messages
in code; directing others to send,
sending, or receiving a letter, mail or
email through unauthorized means;
sending mail or email for other inmates
without authorization; sending
correspondence to a specific address or
forwarding service with directions to
have the correspondence forwarded;
and using a fictitious return address in
an attempt to send or receive
unauthorized correspondence).
297 Use of the telephone for abuses
other than illegal activity which
circumvent the ability of staff to monitor
frequency of telephone use, content of
the call, or the number called; or to
commit or further a High category
prohibited act.
298 Interfering with a staff member
in the performance of duties most like
another High severity prohibited act.
This charge is to be used only when
another charge of High severity is not
accurate. The offending conduct must
be charged as ‘‘most like’’ one of the
listed High severity prohibited acts.
299 Conduct which disrupts or
interferes with the security or orderly
running of the institution or the Bureau
of Prisons most like another High
severity prohibited act. This charge is to
be used only when another charge of
High severity is not accurate. The
offending conduct must be charged as
‘‘most like’’ one of the listed High
severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for High Severity
Level Prohibited Acts
A. Recommend parole date rescission
or retardation.
B. Forfeit and/or withhold earned
statutory good time or non-vested good
conduct time up to 50% or up to 60
days, whichever is less, and/or
terminate or disallow extra good time
(an extra good time or good conduct
time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1 Disallow ordinarily between 25%
and 50% (14–27 days) of good conduct
time credit available for year (a good
conduct time sanction may not be
suspended).
B.2 Forfeit up to 27 days of earned
FSA Time Credits for each prohibited
act committed.
C. Disciplinary segregation (up to 30
days).
D. Make monetary restitution.
E. Monetary fine.
F. Loss of privileges (e.g., visiting,
video visits, telephone, commissary,
movies, recreation, electronic device(s),
electronic mail, electronic mail and
messaging through the TRULINCS
system).
G. Change housing (quarters).
H. Remove from program and/or
group activity.
I. Loss of job.
J. Impound inmate’s personal
property.
K. Confiscate contraband.
L. Restrict to quarters.
M. Extra duty.
Moderate Severity Level Prohibited
Acts
300 (Not to be used).
301 (Not to be used).
302 Misuse of authorized
medication.
303 Possession of money or
currency, unless specifically authorized,
or in excess of the amount authorized.
304 Loaning of property or anything
of value for profit or increased return.
305 Possession of anything not
authorized for retention or receipt by
the inmate, and not issued to him
through regular channels.
306 Refusing to work or to accept a
program assignment.
307 Refusing to obey an order of any
staff member (may be categorized and
charged in terms of greater severity,
according to the nature of the order
being disobeyed, e.g., failure to obey an
order which furthers a riot would be
charged as 105, Rioting; refusing to obey
an order which furthers a fight would be
charged as 201, Fighting; refusing to
provide a urine sample when ordered as
part of a drug-abuse test would be
charged as 110).
308 Violating a condition of a
furlough.
309 Violating a condition of a
community program.
310 Unexcused absence from work
or any program assignment.
311 Failing to perform work as
instructed by the supervisor.
312 Insolence towards a staff
member.
313 Providing a false statement to a
staff member, to include feigning
illness.
314 Counterfeiting, forging, or
unauthorized reproduction of any
document, article of identification,
money, security, or official paper (may
be categorized in terms of greater
severity according to the nature of the
item being reproduced, e.g.,
counterfeiting release papers to effect
escape, Code 102).
315 Participating in an unauthorized
meeting or gathering.
316 Being in an unauthorized area
without staff authorization.
317 Failure to follow safety or
sanitation regulations (including safety
regulations, chemical instructions, tools,
MSDS sheets, OSHA standards).
318 Using any equipment or
machinery without staff authorization.
319 Using any equipment or
machinery contrary to instructions or
posted safety standards.
320 Failing to stand count.
321 Interfering with the taking of
count.
322 (Not to be used).
323 (Not to be used).
324 Gambling; possession of
gambling paraphernalia; or preparing or
conducting a gambling pool.
325 (Not to be used).
326 (Not to be used).
327 Unauthorized contacts with the
public.
328 Giving money or anything of
value to, or accepting money or
anything of value from, another inmate
or any other person without staff
authorization.
329 Destroying, altering, or
damaging government property, or the
property of another person, having a
value of $100.00 or less.
330 Being unsanitary or untidy;
failing to keep one’s person or quarters
in accordance with posted standards.
331 Possession, manufacture, or loss
of a non-hazardous item or contraband
(‘‘non-hazardous item or contraband’’
includes, but is not limited to, items not
likely to be used in an escape; items not
likely to serve as a weapon capable of
doing serious bodily harm to others;
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00033 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules 6469
items not hazardous to institutional
security or personal safety;
unauthorized food, cosmetics, cleaning
supplies, and unauthorized nutritional/
dietary supplements).
332 (Not to be used).
333 Fraudulent or deceptive
completion of a skills test (e.g., cheating
on a GED, or other educational or
vocational skills test).
334 Conducting a business;
conducting or directing an investment
transaction without staff authorization.
335 (Not to be used).
336 (Not to be used).
337 Using obscene or abusive
language directed at another person or
people.
338 Unauthorized conduct in the
visiting room (e.g., kissing, embracing,
etc.).
396 Use of the mail, including
electronic mail and messaging, for
abuses other than criminal activity
which do not circumvent mail or email
monitoring; or use of the mail or email
to commit or further a Moderate
category prohibited act.
397 (Not to be used).
398 Interfering with a staff member
in the performance of duties most like
another Moderate severity prohibited
act. This charge is to be used only when
another charge of Moderate severity is
not accurate. The offending conduct
must be charged as ‘‘most like’’ one of
the listed Moderate severity prohibited
acts.
399 Conduct which disrupts or
interferes with the security or orderly
running of the institution or the Bureau
of Prisons most like another Moderate
severity prohibited act. This charge is to
be used only when another charge of
Moderate severity is not accurate. The
offending conduct must be charged as
‘‘most like’’ one of the listed Moderate
severity prohibited acts.
Available Sanctions for Moderate
Severity Level Prohibited Acts
A. Recommend parole date rescission
or retardation.
B. Forfeit and/or withhold earned
statutory good time or non-vested good
conduct time up to 25% or up to 30
days, whichever is less, and/or
terminate or disallow extra good time
(an extra good time or good conduct
time sanction may not be suspended).
B.1 Disallow ordinarily up to 25% (1–
14 days) of good conduct time credit
available for year (a good conduct time
sanction may not be suspended).
B.2 Forfeit up to 27 days of earned
FSA Time Credits for each prohibited
act committed.
C. Disciplinary segregation (up to 15
days).
D. Make monetary restitution.
E. Monetary fine.
F. Loss of privileges (e.g., visiting,
video visits, telephone, commissary,
movies, recreation, electronic device(s),
electronic mail, electronic mail and
messaging through the TRULINCS
system).
G. Change housing (quarters).
H. Remove from program and/or
group activity.
I. Loss of job.
J. Impound inmate’s personal
property.
K. Confiscate contraband.
L. Restrict to quarters.
M. Extra duty.
Low Severity Level Prohibited Acts
(None).
Available Sanctions for Low Severity Level Prohibited Acts
(None).
TABLE 2 TO § 541.3—ADDITIONAL AVAILABLE SANCTIONS FOR REPEATED PROHIBITED ACTS WITHIN THE SAME SEVERITY
LEVEL
Prohibited act
severity level
Time period for
prior offense
(same severity
level)
(months)
Frequency of
repeated offense Additional available sanctions
Moderate Severity
(300 level).
6 2nd offense ........... 1. Disciplinary segregation (up to 15 days).
2. Forfeit earned SGT or non-vested GCT up to 371/2% or up to 45 days,
whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow EGT (an EGT sanction may
not be suspended).
3. Forfeit up to 7 days of earned FSA Time Credits (only where the inmate is
found to have committed a second violation of the same prohibited act within 6 months.
3rd or more offense within 6
months.
1. Any available High Severity Level sanction (200 series).
2. Forfeit up to 14 days of FSA Time Credits (only where the inmate is found
to have committed a third violation of the same prohibited act within 6
months).
High Severity (200
level).
10 2nd offense ........... 1. Disciplinary segregation (up to 60 days).
2. Forfeit earned SGT or non-vested GCT up to 75% or up to 90 days, whichever is less, and/or terminate or disallow EGT (an EGT sanction may not
be suspended).
3rd or more offense.
Any available Greatest severity level sanction (100 series).
Greatest Severity
(100 level).
24 2nd or more offense.
Disciplinary segregation (up to 90 days).
§ 541.4 [Amended]
■ 5. Amend § 541.4 by removing
paragraph (b)(4).
■ 6. Amend § 541.5 by revising
paragraphs (a), (b) introductory text,
(b)(2) and (3) to read as follows:
§ 541.5 Discipline process.
(a) Incident report. The discipline
process starts when staff witness or
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:05 Jan 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00034 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\01FEP1.SGM 01FEP1
ddrumheller on DSK120RN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
6470 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 22 / Thursday, February 1, 2024 / Proposed Rules
reasonably believe that you committed a
prohibited act. An incident report
describing the incident and the
prohibited act(s) you are charged with
committing will be issued to you, which
you will ordinarily receive within 24
hours of staff becoming aware of your
involvement in the incident.
(b) Investigation. After you receive an
incident report, it will be investigated.
* * * * *
(2) Statement. When asked for your
statement, you may give an explanation
of the incident, request any witnesses be
interviewed, or request that other
evidence be obtained and reviewed.
However, the investigation of the
incident report may be suspended
before requesting your statement if it is
being investigated for possible criminal
prosecution.
(3) Informally resolving the incident
report. The incident report may be
informally resolved at any stage of the
disciplinary process, for Moderate
Severity Level prohibited acts, or as
otherwise required by law or these
regulations. The incident report will not
be removed from your discipline
records, unless it is informally resolved
or expunged.
■ 7. Amend § 541.7 by revising the
section introductory text, paragraphs (c)
and (f) to read as follows:
§ 541.7 Unit Discipline Committee (UDC)
review of the incident report.
A Unit Discipline Committee (UDC)
will review the incident report once the
investigation is complete. The UDC’s
review involves the following:
* * * * *
(c) Timing. The UDC will ordinarily
review the incident report within five
work days after the day staff became
aware of the inmate’s involvement in
the incident, not counting the day staff
become aware of the inmate’s
involvement, weekends, or holidays.
UDC review of the incident report may
also be suspended if it is being
investigated for possible criminal
prosecution.
* * * * *
(f) Sanctions. If you committed a
prohibited act(s), the UDC can impose
any of the available sanctions listed in
Tables 1 and 2, except loss of good
conduct sentence credit, FSA Time
Credits, disciplinary segregation,
monetary restitution, or monetary fines.
* * * * *
■ 8. Amend § 541.8 by revising
paragraph (a)(3) to read as follows:
§ 541.8 Discipline Hearing Officer (DHO)
hearing.
* * * * *
(a) * * *
* * * * *
(3) The incident report will be
referred back for further investigation,
review, disposition, or other action as
recommended or necessary.
* * * * *
[FR Doc. 2024–01088 Filed 1–31–24; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4410–05–P