DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE
Agricultural Marketing Service
7 CFR Part 175
[Doc. No. AMS–LP–24–0012]
RIN 0581–AE29
Greenhouse Gas Technical Assistance
Provider and Third-Party Verifier
Program
AGENCY: Agricultural Marketing Service,
USDA.
ACTION: Notification; request for
information.
SUMMARY: The U.S. Department of
Agriculture (USDA) is seeking public
input to support the preparation of
proposed regulations intended to
implement the Greenhouse Gas
Technical Assistance Provider and
Third-Party Verifier Program (the
Program), particularly related to the
criteria used to evaluate protocols and
identification of specific protocols that
should be considered for inclusion in
the Program. The purpose of the
Program is to facilitate farmer, rancher,
and private forest landowner
participation in voluntary carbon
markets. This request for information
provides an important step toward
developing a meaningful Program
consistent with the Growing Climate
Solutions Act (GCSA).
DATES: Comments must be received by
June 28, 2024 to be assured of
consideration.
ADDRESSES: Interested persons are
invited to submit comments concerning
this document by either of the following
methods:
• Federal Rulemaking Portal: Go to
https://www.regulations.gov and enter
‘‘AMS–LP–24–0012’’ in the Search field.
Select the Documents tab, then select
the ‘Comment’ button in the list of
documents. Comments should reference
the document number and the date and
page number of this issue of the Federal
Register.
• Email: Please submit any email
responses to Sasha.Strohm@usda.gov.
All comments submitted in response
to this document will be included in the
record, will be made available to the
public, and can be viewed at: https://
www.regulations.gov. Please be advised
that the identity of the individuals or
entities submitting the comments will
be made available to the public on the
internet at the address provided above.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Sasha Strohm, Program Manager, at
202–720–5705, or via email at
Sasha.Strohm@usda.gov.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
I. Background
USDA is preparing to establish the
Greenhouse Gas Technical Assistance
Provider and Third-Party Verifier
Program (the Program), authorized
under the provisions of the Growing
Climate Solutions Act (GCSA), which
was signed into law on December 29,
2022, as part of the Consolidated
Appropriations Act of 2023 (Pub. L.
117–328, div. HH, title I, section 201).
The purpose of the Program is to
facilitate farmer, rancher, and private
forest landowner participation in
voluntary carbon markets.
In establishing the Program, USDA
will (1) publish a list of, and documents
relating to, widely accepted protocols
that are designed to ensure consistency,
reliability, effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency of voluntary
environmental credit markets; (2)
publish descriptions of widely accepted
qualifications possessed by covered
entities that provide technical assistance
to farmers, ranchers, and private forest
landowners; (3) publish a list of
qualified technical assistance providers
and third-party verifiers; and (4) provide
information to assist farmers, ranchers,
and private forest landowners in
accessing voluntary environmental
credit markets.
Prior to publication of this request for
information (RFI) and as directed by the
GCSA, USDA completed an analysis of
voluntary carbon markets and published
a report, ‘‘A General Assessment of the
Role of Agriculture and Forestry in U.S.
Carbon Markets’’.1 The report
concluded that voluntary carbon
markets offer a promising tool to
achieve greenhouse gas (GHG)
reductions from the agricultural and
forestry sectors. However, farmers,
ranchers, and private forest landowners
face barriers to accessing voluntary
carbon markets due to market
confusion, high costs, and project
requirements. A full discussion on how
the Program will address barriers and
facilitate producer participation in
voluntary carbon markets is available in
the report, ‘‘USDA Intent to Establish
the Greenhouse Gas Technical
Assistance Provider and Third-Party
Verifier Program’’.2
This RFI seeks public input on
options for implementing the Program.
Specifically, USDA seeks input on (1)
options for interpreting and applying
criteria used to evaluate protocols that
are designed to ensure consistency,
reliability, effectiveness, efficiency, and
transparency; (2) information pertaining
to specific protocols to be evaluated for
inclusion in the program; (3)
qualifications needed by covered
entities who serve as technical
assistance providers to farmers,
ranchers, or private forest landowners;
and (4) qualifications needed by covered
entities who serve as third-parties who
conduct verification of processes
described in protocols for voluntary
environmental credit markets. The
information obtained will be considered
in determining the next step, which
could include a proposed rule.
II. Request for Information
Commenters should refer to specific
question numbers in their responses.
Question 1: How should USDA define
the terms ‘‘consistency,’’ ‘‘reliability,’’
‘‘effectiveness,’’ ‘‘efficiency,’’ and
‘‘transparency’’ (see 7 U.S.C.
6712(c)(1)(A)) for use in protocol
evaluation?
Question 2: What metrics or standards
should USDA use to evaluate a
protocol’s alignment with each of the
five criteria to be defined in Question 1?
What should USDA consider as
minimum criteria for a protocol to
qualify for listing under the Program?
Question 3: In general, after a new
protocol is published, how long does it
take for a project to use the protocol and
be issued credits (i.e., what is the lag
VerDate Sep<11>2014 16:36 May 28, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00001 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\29MYP1.SGM 29MYP1
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with PROPOSALS1
46336 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 104 / Wednesday, May 29, 2024 / Proposed Rules
time between protocol publication and
first credit generation)?
Question 4: Which protocol(s) for
generating voluntary carbon credits
from agriculture and forestry projects
should USDA evaluate for listing
through the Greenhouse Gas Technical
Assistance Provider and Third-Party
Verifier Program?
Question 5: For any protocol(s)
identified under Question 4:
(a) Has the protocol resulted in the
generation and sale of credits? If yes,
when was the most recent year and
volume of credit generation and
retirement? If not, is there evidence that
the protocol will generate credits (e.g.,
projects are under development)?
(b) What is the average size (in acres,
hectares, or another relevant unit) of
projects using the protocol?
(c) What is the average credit issuance
per unit land area (acre or hectare) for
projects using the protocol, inclusive of
credits that are contributed to a buffer
pool?
(d) Does the protocol reduce the cost,
paperwork, and/or reporting burden for
smaller, diversified, or underserved
farmers, ranchers, or private forest
landowners, while maintaining
reliability of offsets? If yes, how?
(e) Does the protocol allow multiple
entities to aggregate into a single
project? If yes, what are the parameters
for aggregation and is there evidence
that aggregation has successfully
occurred?
(f) Does the registry administering the
protocol use a fee structure that allows
for aggregated entities to pay a single
project fee, or does each entity need to
pay a project fee?
(g) What are the verification
requirements in the protocol, including
recordkeeping requirements?
(h) Does the protocol require on-site
verification? If yes, does the protocol
require 100% on-site verification, or
does the protocol specify a procedure
for determining an on-site verification
sample group? What is required as part
of the on-site verification? Does the
protocol allow remote verification
methods/technologies (e.g., remote
sensing)?
(i) Does the protocol include a risk
management approach for determining
which data inputs or project sites are
required for third-party verification? If
yes, what does the risk management
approach require?
(j) Does the protocol allow for
simplified measurement, monitoring,
reporting, and verification (MMRV)
processes? If yes, are there requirements
or restrictions for using the simplified
MMRV processes?
(k) What quantification
methodology(ies) does the protocol
require for quantification of emissions
reductions and/or removals? What
scientific evidence is available to
support these methodologies?
(l) For protocols where models are
required to quantify emissions, is there
a process for model review and approval
prior to use by prospective projects? Can
approved models be used by any project
or are they specific to a project
developer?
(m) If models are allowed for
quantification of emissions reductions,
are models required to have gone
through scientific review,
parameterization, calibration, and
validation to demonstrate performance
for the practices on the relevant crops
and/or species in the geography of the
project? Does the protocol provide clear
guidance on where eligible models can
be applied?
(n) What does the protocol require or
allow for determining a project
baseline?
(o) How does the registry
administering the protocol restrict the
potential double counting of credits?
(p) Does the protocol require projects
to quantify and report uncertainty
associated with greenhouse gas
calculations?
(q) Has the protocol generated credits
which were later cancelled due to issues
of credit integrity or validity?
(r) For project categories where
reversals (i.e., the intentional or
unintentional release of sequestered
carbon for which credits have been
issued) are possible, does the protocol
contain procedures to maintain net GHG
impact?
(s) Where is information about the
protocol made publicly available?
Question 6: How should USDA
evaluate technical assistance providers
(TAP)? What should be the minimum
qualifications, certifications, and/or
expertise for a TAP to qualify for listing
under the Program?
Question 7: Should the qualifications
and/or registration process be different
for entities and individuals that seek to
register as a TAP?
Questions 8: What should be the
minimum qualifications and expertise
for a third-party verifier to qualify for
registration under the Program?
(Authority: Pub. L. 117–328, div. HH, title I,
section 201)
Melissa Bailey,
Associate Administrator, Agricultural
Marketing Service.
[FR Doc. 2024–11424 Filed 5–28–24; 8:45 am]