47536 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 107 / Monday, June 3, 2024 / Notices
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
International Trade Administration
[Docket No. 240530–0148]
Request for Comments on Commerce
Supply Chain Risk Assessment and
IPEF Supply Chains
AGENCY: International Trade
Administration, Department of
Commerce.
ACTION: Notice; request for public
comments.
SUMMARY: The Department of Commerce
(Commerce) seeks public comment to
inform its work on assessing and
analyzing risk in global supply chains.
This includes input into a
determination of an initial list of
‘‘critical sectors’’ and ‘‘key goods’’ as
provided under the Indo-Pacific
Economic Framework for Prosperity
(IPEF) Agreement Relating to Supply
Chain Resilience (Supply Chain
Agreement). The United States’ initial
list will be shared with the IPEF Supply
Chain Council members and will inform
work undertaken pursuant to the
Agreement. Comments will also inform
other analytical tools and methodologies
developed by Commerce’s Industry &
Analysis unit to support resilient supply
chains for U.S. industry.
DATES: To be assured of consideration,
submit any written comments by the
June 21 deadline. Commerce may
consider comments filed after the
deadline.
ADDRESSES: You may submit comments,
identified by 240530–0148 by the
following methods:
Online Submission (Strongly
Preferred): Submit all electronic public
comments via the Federal e-Rulemaking
Portal. Go to https://
www.regulations.gov and enter 240530–
0148 in the Search.
Email Submission to IPEFSCA@
trade.gov: Comments submitted by
email should be machine-readable and
should not be copy-protected.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Kevin Doyle, Policy Advisor for IPEF,
International Trade Administration,
U.S. Department of Commerce, 1401
Constitution Ave NW; telephone 202–
779–0376; or emails at IPEFSCA@
trade.gov.
Ahmad Khalil, Managing Director,
Risk Assessment and Advanced
Analytics, Supply Chain Center,
International Trade Administration,
Industry and Analysis unit, U.S.
Department of Commerce, 1401
Constitution Ave NW; telephone 202–
779–0376; or emails at
supplychaincenter@trade.gov.
Please direct media inquiries to ITA’s
Office of Public Affairs at publicaffairs@
trade.gov.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background
Building supply chain resilience is a
top priority of the Department of
Commerce, building on a long history of
supply chain work led by the Industry
& Analysis (I&A) unit in the
International Trade Administration
(ITA). I&A is comprised of a broad set
of industry experts with unique
commercial perspectives in
understanding supply chains and
informing and driving policy action. In
2023, the Department launched a firstof its-kind Supply Chain Center to serve
as an analytic engine to help drive
decision-making and policy action on
efforts to strengthen supply chain
resilience, leveraging I&A’s deep
industry expertise, quantitative data,
and advanced analytics to help make
the government’s work on supply chains
more proactive and impactful. The
Center is facilitating collaboration
across I&A, other parts of Commerce,
and other government agencies to
support a proactive approach by the
U.S. government in getting ahead of
supply chain challenges, to be strategic
in setting priorities for policy focus and
action based on data-driven risk
analysis, and to serve as a force
multiplier in improving the targeting
and effectiveness of U.S. government
investments. Across these efforts, the
Department depends on close
partnerships with stakeholders from
government, industry, academia, labor,
and civil society.
Department of Commerce Supply Chain
Risk Assessment
Central to the Supply Chain Center’s
work are efforts to boost the U.S.
government’s ability to understand
systemic supply chain risks by building
a cross-sectoral risk assessment
framework (the ‘‘tool’’). The tool will
utilize a comprehensive set of indicators
to assess current or prospective supply
chain risk across the U.S. economy,
with an emphasis on risks to national
security, including economic security,
most relevant to the U.S. government.
The goal is to help the U.S. government
more comprehensively and
systematically identify supply chain
vulnerabilities and pursue in-depth
analysis for actionable and evidencebased policy recommendations.
This is the first effort by the U.S.
government to assess supply chain
vulnerability across all major sectors of
the economy. This tool will help the
U.S. government to determine—at the
sectoral, and eventually product, level—
where there are hidden vulnerabilities
that could be addressed through policy
action by the U.S. government and/or
public-private partnerships.
The supply chain risk assessment
framework is an iterative tool. The latest
version of the framework incorporates
upwards of 40 indicators of risk that
relate to a sector’s criticality to the U.S.
government, vulnerability to disruption,
and resilience in the face of disruption.
Examples of criticality of a product or
sector include products listed in the
White House Critical and Emerging
Technologies list, the products required
for the Department of Defense industrial
base, and products central to U.S. public
health and safety, such as
pharmaceuticals and certain nutritional
foods.
The vulnerability indicators cover six
categories of risk: geopolitical;
economic; logistical; business/financial;
technological; and environmental.
Resiliency indicators focus on how
quickly a sector can bounce back from
a disruption, considering levels of
substitutability, unutilized capacity, and
replacement of key inputs.
The Center has been consulting with
relevant external stakeholders in the
development of this tool as well,
including reaching out to dozens of
industry and academic experts. The
vision and success of this framework
depend on close collaboration with
industry stakeholders, as well as those
from government, academia, civil
society, labor, and others, to gather
insights, develop accurate assessments
of risks and mitigation options, and then
take targeted and coordinated action to
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:00 May 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00028 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03JNN1.SGM 03JNN1
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 107 / Monday, June 3, 2024 / Notices 47537
advance U.S. supply chain resiliency
and competitiveness.
The creation of an economy-wide risk
tool is an important element of the
Commerce Department’s Supply Chain
Center work, though not the only
instance in which the Center is
leveraging big data and the qualitative
insights of industry experts and
economists. The Center is also
leveraging analytic tools for targeted
scans of critical sectors; expanding its
ability to model scenarios and evaluate
the potential impacts of proposed policy
actions; and deepening its proactive
analysis through case studies and
replicable and scalable frameworks and
toolkits for supply chain analysis and
policy action. The Center is also
bolstering its ability to produce quickturn analysis in the event of supply
chain disruptions by building
partnerships with academia, civil
society, labor and others as well as
standing playbooks that can help inform
policy responses and industry
engagement.
IPEF List of Critical Sectors and Key
Goods
Commerce’s supply chain resilience
efforts are also being advanced through
the Supply Chain Agreement. Launched
in May 2022 with 13 regional partners—
Australia, Brunei Darussalam, Fiji,
India, Indonesia, Japan, the Republic of
Korea, Malaysia, New Zealand, the
Philippines, Singapore, Thailand, and
Vietnam—IPEF seeks to establish a
platform for long-term economic
engagement and cooperation, and to
tackle present-day challenges.
Negotiations among the 14 IPEF
partners for the Supply Chain
Agreement substantially concluded on
May 27, 2023, and a signing ceremony
of the Agreement was held on
November 14 of that same year. The
Supply Chain Agreement entered into
force on February 24, 2024, after the
fifth partner deposited its instrument of
ratification, acceptance, or approval. As
of May 6, 2024, a total of six partners—
Japan, the United States, Singapore, Fiji,
India, and the Republic of Korea—have
deposited their instruments, in that
order.
Parties to the Supply Chain
Agreement intend to collaborate on
initiatives aimed at strengthening the
resilience and competitiveness of target
supply chains, better preparing for and
responding to supply chain disruptions,
and enhancing the role of workers
across these supply chains. To do this,
the Supply Chain Agreement establishes
three supply chain bodies tasked with
facilitating various forms of
cooperation—a Supply Chain Council, a
Crisis Response Network, and a Labor
Rights Advisory Board. Parties to the
Supply Chain Agreement shall, and
signatories that have not deposited an
instrument of ratification, acceptance, or
approval may designate representatives
to these bodies to discuss and carry out
this work.
Article 10 of the Supply Chain
Agreement requires the development of
initial lists of ‘‘critical sectors’’ and ‘‘key
goods,’’ which will then be shared
through the Supply Chain Council. The
Parties can change or update these lists
at any time. As the U.S. Government’s
representative to the Council, the
Department of Commerce, through the
International Trade Administration
(ITA), is leading the process to prepare
and submit this list on behalf of the
United States, and intends to update the
list periodically, as appropriate and as
envisioned under the Supply Chain
Agreement.
These lists will, among other things,
inform discussions among the members
of the IPEF Supply Chain Council on
opportunities for collaboration under
the Supply Chain Agreement through
the IPEF Supply Chain Council. Such
collaboration could take the form of
actions to promote business
matchmaking, encourage investment, or
improve policy coordination in areas
impacting supply chains, among others.
The Council may establish teams to
develop Action Plans to provide
recommendations to promote resilience
and competitiveness for critical sectors
or key goods based on the lists
provided. Those critical sectors and key
goods that appear on three or more lists
are eligible for the development of an
Action Plan.
Article 1 of the Supply Chain
Agreement provides the following
definitions of ‘‘critical sectors’’ and ‘‘key
goods’’:
• critical sectors means sectors that
produce goods and supply any related
essential services critical to a Party’s
national security, public health and
safety, or prevention of significant or
widespread economic disruptions, as
identified by that Party in accordance
with Article 10;
• key goods means raw, in-process, or
manufactured materials, articles, or
commodities, the absence of which
could have a significant effect on a
Party’s national security, public health
and safety, or prevention of significant
or widespread economic disruptions, as
identified by that Party in accordance
with Article 10;
Article 10 of the Supply Chain
Agreement further outlines the factors
intended to be considered in identifying
respective critical sectors and key
goods. These include:
(a) the impact of a potential shortage
on its national security, public health
and safety, or prevention of significant
or widespread economic disruptions;
(b) the level of dependence on a single
supplier or a single country, region, or
geographic location;
(c) geographic factors including actual
or potential transport constraints,
especially for its island or remote
regions;
(d) the availability and reliability of
alternative suppliers or supply
locations;
(e) the extent of imports required to
meet domestic demand;
(f) the availability of domestic
production capacity; or
(g) the extent of interconnectedness
with other critical sectors or key goods.
The Department of Commerce
recognizes the importance of a
deliberative and inclusive review and
selection process for identifying the
United States’ initial list of critical
sectors and key goods under the Supply
Chain Agreement.
To assist in these endeavors,
Commerce requests information from
the public on the topics provided below.
Request for Written Comments
Instructions: This notice is intended
to improve Commerce’s understanding
of public views on how the Department
and I&A should assess risk in global
supply chains, including what
indicators and data sets it should
include in the development of an
economy-wide risk assessment tool, and
how to apply the factors outlined in the
Supply Chain Agreement in its
determination of the United States’
initial list of critical sectors and key
goods under the Supply Chain
Agreement. This notice is a general
solicitation for public comments and
further sets forth specific topics for
discussion and comment. Commerce
seeks broad input from all interested
stakeholders, including U.S. industry,
researchers, labor organizations,
academia, and civil society.
Commenters are encouraged to address
any or all of the following questions and
may respond with general views on how
to apply these factors or provide specific
information about a specific sector or
good. To the extent commenters choose
to respond to the specific questions
asked, responses may be formatted as
the commenter prefers.
Comments will be reviewed by
Commerce staff, including the Supply
Chain Center, the Industry & Analysis
business unit offices, the IPEF team,
and, as appropriate, Commerce
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:00 May 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00029 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03JNN1.SGM 03JNN1
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
47538 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 107 / Monday, June 3, 2024 / Notices
contractors, and may be used to inform
the agency’s work on supply chain risk
analysis as outlined above, as well as in
identifying the United States’ initial list
of critical sectors and key goods for
cooperation under the Supply Chain
Agreement. Commerce intends to share
the information received with relevant
U.S. government departments and
agencies, consistent with the BidenHarris Administration’s whole-ofgovernment approach to strengthening
supply chains.
Topics
General Methodology Questions (To
Inform Commerce’s Supply Chain Risk
Assessment Framework)
• What tools, approaches, and
methodologies do you recommend that
Commerce utilize in order to identify
priority products and sectors at elevated
risk of supply chain disruption,
particularly those of relevance to the
United States based on national
security, including economic security?
• More specifically, what definitions,
indicators, and data sets do you
recommend that Commerce use to
evaluate the following aspects of supply
chain risk:
Æ Criticality of the product or sector
to the United States
Æ Vulnerability of the product or
sector to supply chain disruption
Æ Resiliency of the product or sector
in the face of a supply chain
disruption
• What tools, approaches, and
methodologies could Commerce use to
assess a supply chain’s areas of greatest
vulnerability? How can those
vulnerabilities be quantified and tracked
over time?
• What factors influence your
organization’s evaluation of risk in your
supply chains? What additional data,
information, or analysis from the U.S.
government would you view as valuable
in this assessment?
• How should the U.S. government
leverage technological advancements to
foster data collection, analysis, and
dissemination for both public and
private entities?
• What data, indicia, or criteria might
help Commerce identify those supply
chains where the market would be least
likely to prevent or quickly resolve a
disruption?
IPEF-Related Questions (To Inform the
U.S. List of Critical Sectors and Key
Goods Under the Supply Chain
Agreement)
• How should Commerce assess
‘‘significant or widespread economic
disruptions’’ for purposes of the Supply
Chain Agreement? What thresholds or
metrics should Commerce consider in
assessing the risk of such disruptions for
the purposes of identifying critical
sectors and key goods?
• Which, if any, of the factors listed
in Article 10 of the Supply Chain
Agreement should Commerce prioritize
in making its determinations of critical
sectors or key goods for cooperation
under the Supply Chain Agreement?
Please offer a justification.
• In your view, bearing in mind the
seven factors outlined above, what
sectors and goods best fit the criteria for
‘‘critical sectors’’ and ‘‘key goods’’ for
cooperation under the Supply Chain
Agreement and why?
• For those sectors and goods that
Commerce should consider ‘‘critical
sectors’’ and ‘‘key goods’’ for
cooperation under the Supply Chain
Agreement, what types of activities,
either by governments, by companies, or
via public-private cooperation, would
be most valuable to the private sector?
• The U.S. Department of Commerce
requests U.S. small businesses
(generally defined by the Small
Business Administration as firms with
fewer than 500 employees) or
organizations representing U.S. small
business members that submit
comments to self-identify as such, so
that we may be aware of issues of
particular interest to small businesses.
Requirements for Submissions
To be assured of consideration,
submit any written comments by the
June 21 deadline. All submissions must
be in English. Commerce strongly
encourages submissions via
Regulations.gov. Commerce may
consider comments filed after the
deadline. The docket number is
240530–0148.
To submit via Regulations.gov, use
Docket Number 240530–0148 in the
‘search for’ field on the home page and
click ‘search’. The site will provide a
search results page listing all documents
associated with this docket. Find a
reference to this notice by selecting
‘notice’ under ‘document type’ in the
‘refine documents results’ section on the
left side of the screen and click on the
link entitled ‘comment’. Regulations.gov
allows users to make submissions by
filling in a ‘type comment’ field, or by
attaching a document using the ‘upload
file’ field. Commerce prefers that you
provide submissions in an attached
document named according to the
following protocol, as appropriate:
Commenter Name or Organization and
‘‘Commerce Supply Chain’’. If you
provide submissions in an attached
document, please type ‘see attached
comments’ in the ‘comment’ field on the
online submission form.
Please include the name, email
address, and telephone number of an
individual Commerce can contact if
there are issues or questions with the
submission. You will receive a tracking
number upon completion of the
submission procedure at
Regulations.gov. The tracking number is
confirmation that Regulations.gov
received your submission. Keep the
confirmation for your records.
Commerce is not able to provide
technical assistance for Regulations.gov.
For further information on using
Regulations.gov, please consult the
resources provided on the website by
clicking on ‘How to Use
Regulations.gov’ on the bottom of the
home page. You can contact the
Regulations.gov help desk at
regulationshelpdesk@gsa.gov or 1–866–
498–2945 for help with technical
questions on submitting comments on
Regulations.gov.
If you are unable to submit through
Regulations.gov after seeking assistance
from the help desk, please contact Kevin
Doyle at 202–779–0376 or IPEFSCA@
trade.gov or Ahmad Khalil at 202–963–
9696 or supplychaincenter@trade.gov
before transmitting your application and
in advance of the deadline to arrange for
an alternative method of transmission.
ITA will not accept hand-delivered
submissions. ITA may not consider
submissions that you do not make in
accordance with these instructions.
General information concerning
Commerce’s Supply Chain Center is
available at https://www.trade.gov/
supply-chain-center. Commerce’s work
on IPEF is available at https://
www.commerce.gov/ipef.
Business Confidential Information (BCI)
Submissions
If you ask Commerce to treat
information you submit as BCI, you
must certify that the information is
business confidential and that you
would not customarily release it to the
public. For any comments submitted
electronically containing BCI, the file
name of the business confidential
version should begin with the characters
‘BCI.’ You must clearly mark any page
containing BCI with ‘BUSINESS
CONFIDENTIAL’ on the top of that
page. Filers of submissions containing
BCI also must submit a public version
that will be placed in the docket for
public inspection. The file name of the
public version should begin with the
character ‘P.’ Follow the ‘BCI’ and ‘P’
with the name of the individual or
organization submitting the comments.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:00 May 31, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00030 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\03JNN1.SGM 03JNN1
lotter on DSK11XQN23PROD with NOTICES1
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 107 / Monday, June 3, 2024 / Notices 47539
Public Viewing of Review Submissions
ITA will post written submissions in
the docket for public inspection, except
properly designated BCI. You can view
comments on Regulations.gov by
entering Docket Number 240530–0148
in the search field on the home page.
Public Burden Statement
A Federal agency may not conduct or
sponsor, and a person is not required to
respond to, nor shall a person be subject
to a penalty for failure to comply with
an information collection subject to the
requirements of the Paperwork
Reduction Act of 1995 unless the
information collection has a currently
valid OMB Control Number. The
approved OMB Control Number for this
information collection is 0690–0038.
Without this approval, we could not
conduct this information collection.
Public reporting for this information
collection is estimated to be
approximately 2 hours per response,
including the time for reviewing
instructions, searching existing data
sources, gathering and maintaining the
data needed, and completing and
reviewing the information collection.
All responses to this information
collection are voluntary. Send
comments regarding this burden
estimate or any other aspect of this
information collection, including
suggestions for reducing this burden to
the International Trade Administration
Paperwork Reduction Act Program:
pra@trade.gov or to Katelynn Byers, ITA
PRA Process Administrator:
Katelynn.Byers@trade.gov.
Dated: May 30, 2024.
Sharon H Yuan,
Counselor and Chief Negotiator for IPEF.
[FR Doc. 2024–12240 Filed 5–30–24; 4:15 pm]
BILLING CODE 3510–25–P