DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION
[Docket ID ED–2024–OPE–0072]
Request for Information on Identifying
and Tracking Data Related to Early
Childhood Education Providers
AGENCY: Office of Postsecondary
Education, Department of Education.
ACTION: Request for information.
SUMMARY: This notice is a request for
information in the form of written
comments that include information,
research, and suggestions regarding
operational aspects of the possible
inclusion of for-profit early childhood
education providers as eligible
employers for the purpose of Public
Service Loan Forgiveness.
DATES: We must receive your comments
by July 22, 2024.
ADDRESSES: Comments must be
submitted via the Federal eRulemaking
Portal at regulations.gov. However, if
you require an accommodation or
cannot otherwise submit your
comments via regulations.gov, please
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:08 Jun 18, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\20JNN1.SGM 20JNN1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with NOTICES
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 119 / Thursday, June 20, 2024 / Notices 51879
1These estimates are from the Administration for
Children and Families’ National Survey of Early
Care and Education, both the 2019 Home-Based
NSECE chartbook and the 2019 Center-Based
NSECE chartbook. These data show that
approximately three-fourths of home-based
providers had at least some college, and 72 percent
of for-profit ECE workers had some college or
higher.
2https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/
2022/07/13/2022-14631/student-assistance-generalprovisions-federal-perkins-loan-program-federalfamily-education-loan.
3https://www.federalregister.gov/documents/
2022/11/01/2022-23447/institutional-eligibilityunder-the-higher-education-act-of-1965-asamended-student-assistance.
4Section 103(8) of the Higher Education Act
contains a definition of ’’early childhood education
program’’ that includes public preschool, Head
Start, and State licensed and regulated child care
programs. It does not speak to the tax-status of
providers. Unlike the public Kindergarten through
12th grade system, which provides free access to
education for all age-eligible children and youth,
there is no parallel system for our country’s
youngest children. As a result, ECE is delivered
through a system of mixed delivery that includes
public programs, non-profit settings, and for-profit
settings. https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ecd/policyguidance/dear-colleague-letter-mixed-delivery. The
vast majority of ECE settings are home-based, and
do not carry non-profit tax designations.
Compensation across settings is low generally,
regardless of the tax-status of the ECE provider.
https://www.bls.gov/oes/current/oes_va.htm.
5Federal Register: Increasing Access to HighQuality Care and Supporting Caregivers.
contact the program contact person
listed under FOR FURTHER INFORMATION
CONTACT. The Department will not
accept comments by email or by fax. To
ensure that the Department does not
receive duplicate copies, please submit
your comments only once. Additionally,
please include the Docket ID at the top
of your comments.
Federal eRulemaking Portal: Go to
www.regulations.gov to submit your
comments electronically. Information
on using Regulations.gov, including
instructions for accessing agency
documents, submitting comments, and
viewing the docket, is available on the
site under the ‘‘FAQ’’ tab.
Privacy Note: The Department’s
policy for comments received from
members of the public is to make these
submissions available for public
viewing in their entirety on the Federal
eRulemaking Portal at
www.regulations.gov. Therefore,
commenters should be careful to
include in their comments only
information that they wish to make
publicly available. We encourage, but
do not require, that each respondent
include their name, title, institution or
affiliation, and the name, title, mailing
and email addresses, and telephone
number of a contact person for the
institution or affiliation, if any.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT: Greg
Marak. Telephone: (202) 401–6250. You
may also email your questions to
greg.marak@ed.gov, but as described
above, comments must be submitted via
the Federal eRulemaking Portal at
regulations.gov.
If you are deaf, hard of hearing, or
have a speech disability and wish to
access telecommunications relay
services, please dial 7–1–1.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION:
Background:
Congress created the Public Service
Loan Forgiveness (PSLF) Program in
2007 as part of the College Cost
Reduction and Access Act, Public Law
110–84, to encourage individuals to
enter into and remain employed in
public service professions. The program
alleviates financial burdens associated
with Federal Direct Loans for borrowers
working for certain public service
providers by forgiving all remaining
loan balances following 10 years of
public service while the borrower makes
qualifying student loan payments. Since
its creation in 2007, PSLF has been
available to borrowers working for
government at all levels, non-profit
organizations that are tax-exempt under
section 501(c)(3) of the Internal Revenue
Code, and other non-profits that provide
at least one of the specific services listed
in the statute. This includes early care
educators who work in the public sector
or for non-profit organizations.
A significant share of early care
educators, however, are not considered
public sector or non-profit employees
and current regulations do not provide
a pathway for their eligibility for PSLF.
Data from the National Survey of Early
Care and Education, conducted by the
Department of Health and Human
Service’s Office of Planning, Research,
and Evaluation, estimates that extending
PSLF eligibility to early childhood
education (ECE) workers regardless of
the tax status of their employer would
allow more than 450,000 additional ECE
workers to earn credit toward PSLF—
about 68,000 who work in home-based
settings and 390,000 who work in
center-based settings—if they have
student loans.1 This reflects roughly
one-third of the overall ECE workforce.
On July 13, 2022, the Department
published a notice of proposed
rulemaking (NPRM) in the Federal
Register (87 FR 41878).2 In the NPRM,
the Department proposed improvements
to PSLF that reduce regulatory and
administrative barriers that have
historically made it more difficult for
borrowers to make progress toward
forgiveness under PSLF. This included
simplifying criteria to help borrowers
certify employment, helping borrowers
earn progress toward PSLF for months
that did not count before, and providing
borrowers with more opportunities to
correct problems with PSLF.
Additionally, in the NPRM, the
Department asked directed questions
about the possibility of allowing ECE
providers who are private for-profit
businesses to be considered eligible
employers for the purposes of PSLF. In
response, the Department received
many detailed comments about early
childhood education as well as a range
of comments in support of making other
for-profit employers eligible to serve as
qualifying employers for PSLF for
individuals in certain occupations.
On November 1, 2022, the Secretary
published final regulations 3 in the
Federal Register. Those final
regulations did not include regulations
regarding whether, and under what
circumstances, private for-profit ECE
providers employing borrowers working
as early childhood educators, should be
treated as qualifying employers for
PSLF.4
Solicitation of Comments:
Early care educators are among the
lowest-paid workers in the country; and
the Administration has committed
through Executive Order 14095, to
better supporting the care workforce.5
The E.O. states that investments in the
care workforce are foundational to
helping to retain care workers and
improving health and educational
outcomes for those in their care. The
purpose of this Request for Information
(RFI) is to gather information about ECE
providers. This RFI and the comments
received in response to this RFI will not
be considered as part the Affordability
and Student Loans proposed rule (87 FR
41878) and any subsequent related final
rules. The comments received in
response to this RFI will not be used as
part of the rulemaking related to the
treatment of for-profit employers,
including ECE providers, and eligibility
for PSLF. Instead, the feedback from this
RFI will help inform the Department’s
understanding of different approaches
that might be considered when
implementing non-rulemaking solutions
related to this issue.
Given the operational and
implementation hurdles associated with
PSLF, the Department is interested in
understanding whether there are ways
that eligibility could be streamlined if
all ECEs became eligible. The
Department is soliciting information
and data from the public on how the
Department could determine employer
eligibility and related considerations if
for-profit ECE employers were to be
considered eligible employers if they
provided one of the services listed in
the statute. The Department encourages
VerDate Sep<11>2014 17:08 Jun 18, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4703 Sfmt 4703 E:\FR\FM\20JNN1.SGM 20JNN1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with NOTICES
51880 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 119 / Thursday, June 20, 2024 / Notices
comments from researchers, academics,
policy experts, and other individuals
familiar with ECE employer data;
organizations that work directly with
ECE workers; State and Tribal
government officials who oversee and
administer ECE programs; ECE
practitioners; and other members of the
public. The Department will review all
comments received, but does not intend
to respond to comments.
The Department seeks feedback on the
following questions:
(1) The Department has always relied
upon employer identification numbers
(EINs) to identify whether an employer
is a non-profit under IRC 501(c)(3). This
approach has allowed the Department to
create a comprehensive list of eligible
employers and use a consistent
identifier system. However, some forprofit businesses may be sole
proprietors or other providers that do
not have an EIN. Are there other
uniform sources that the Department
might consider using for determinations
of qualifying employers?
(2) If there are not other uniform
sources, how should the Department
address eligibility determinations of a
for-profit ECE employer?
(3) If in consultation with the
Department, the U.S. Department of
Health & Human Services (HHS), issued
a voluntary Public Records Act request
from the States to create a nationwide
registry of EINs of ECE providers, are
State and Tribal agencies that oversee
and administer ECE programs in a
position to collect this information? Do
commenters believe that all States
would provide this information? Are
there any additional considerations the
Department should be aware of should
HHS issue this request?
(4) What feedback can be provided
concerning the time it would take a
State or Tribe to undertake the
collection of EINs for licensed and
regulated providers, including the
process, privacy, administrative, or
other considerations that the
Department should take into account?
(5) Should the Department consider a
process that relies on unique identifiers
associated with licensure as opposed to
EINs to identify eligible employers?
This is a request for information only.
This RFI is not a request for proposals
and does not commit the Department to
take any future administrative,
contractual, regulatory, or other action.
The Department will not pay for any
information or costs that you may incur
in responding to this RFI. Any
documents and information submitted
in response to this RFI become the
property of the U.S. Government and
will not be returned.
Accessible Format: By request to the
program contact person listed under FOR
FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT,
individuals with disabilities can obtain
this document in an accessible format.
The Department will provide the
requestor with an accessible format that
may include Rich Text Format (RTF) or
text format (txt), a thumb drive, an MP3
file, braille, large print, audiotape, or
compact disc, or other accessible format.
Electronic Access to this Document:
The official version of this document is
the document published in the Federal
Register. You may access the official
edition of the Federal Register and the
Code of Federal Regulations at
www.govinfo.gov. At this site you can
view this document, as well as all other
documents of this Department
published in the Federal Register, in
text or Portable Document Format
(PDF). To use PDF you must have
Adobe Acrobat Reader, which is
available free at the site.
You may also access documents of the
Department published in the Federal
Register by using the article search
feature at www.federalregister.gov.
Specifically, through the advanced
search feature at this site, you can limit
your search to documents published by
the Department.
Nasser Paydar,
Assistant Secretary, Office of Postsecondary
Education.
[FR Doc. 2024–13446 Filed 6–18–24; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 4000–01–P 