Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40439
DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE
Patent and Trademark Office
37 CFR Part 1
[Docket No. PTO–P–2024–0003]
RIN 0651–AD76
Terminal Disclaimer Practice To
Obviate Nonstatutory Double Patenting
AGENCY: United States Patent and
Trademark Office, Department of
Commerce.
ACTION: Notice of proposed rulemaking.
SUMMARY: The USPTO proposes to
amend the rules of practice to add a new
requirement for an acceptable terminal
disclaimer that is filed to obviate (that
is, overcome) nonstatutory double
patenting. The proposed rule change
would require terminal disclaimers filed
to obviate nonstatutory double patenting
to include an agreement by the
disclaimant that the patent in which the
terminal disclaimer is filed, or any
patent granted on an application in
which a terminal disclaimer is filed,
will be enforceable only if the patent is
not tied and has never been tied directly
or indirectly to a patent by one or more
terminal disclaimers filed to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting in which:
any claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid as anticipated or
obvious by a Federal court in a civil
action or by the USPTO, and all appeal
rights have been exhausted; or a
statutory disclaimer of a claim is filed
after any challenge based on
anticipation or obviousness to that
claim has been made. This action is
being taken to prevent multiple patents
directed to obvious variants of an
invention from potentially deterring
competition and to promote innovation
and competition by allowing a
competitor to avoid enforcement of
patents tied by one or more terminal
disclaimers to another patent having a
claim finally held unpatentable or
invalid over prior art.
DATES: Comments must be received by
July 9, 2024 to ensure consideration.
ADDRESSES: For reasons of government
efficiency, comments must be submitted
through the Federal eRulemaking Portal
at www.regulations.gov. To submit
comments via the portal, one should
enter docket number PTO–P–2024–0003
on the homepage and click ‘‘search.’’
The site will provide search results
listing all documents associated with
this docket. Commenters can find a
reference to this proposed rule and click
on the ‘‘Comment’’ icon, complete the
required fields, and enter or attach their
comments. Attachments to electronic
comments will be accepted in Adobe®
portable document format (PDF) or
Microsoft Word® format. Because
comments will be made available for
public inspection, information that the
submitter does not desire to make
public, such as an address or phone
number, should not be included in the
comments.
Visit the Federal eRulemaking Portal
for additional instructions on providing
comments via the portal. If electronic
submission of or access to comments is
not feasible due to a lack of access to a
computer and/or the internet, please
contact the USPTO using the contact
information below for special
instructions.
FOR FURTHER INFORMATION CONTACT:
Susy Tsang-Foster, Senior Legal
Advisor, Office of Patent Legal
Administration, at 571–272–7711; or
Nicholas Hill, Legal Advisor, Office of
Patent Legal Administration, at 571–
270–1485.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Under
U.S. law, a person is entitled to a patent,
absent certain exceptions, for an
invention that is new and not obvious
as of the effective filing date of the
claimed invention. Because a patent
owner may file continuing applications
and obtain follow-on patents with
claims that have the same effective
filing date as those of the original
patent, patent owners may pursue
multiple patents with claims that vary
in only minor ways from each other. A
patent owner may also, under certain
circumstances (for example, when two
applications are filed on the same day),
obtain patents that are not part of the
same patent family for obvious variants
of an invention. As a result,
obviousness-type double patenting (also
referred to as nonstatutory double
patenting) may exist between patents
and/or applications in the same patent
family or in a different patent family.
Under the doctrine of obviousness-type
double patenting, the USPTO rejects
patentably indistinct claims filed in
patent applications when these
applications and the applications and/or
patents whose claims form the basis of
the nonstatutory double patenting: (1)
have the same inventive entity, at least
one common (joint) inventor, a common
applicant, and/or a common owner/
assignee; or (2) are not commonly
owned but are owned by parties to a
joint research agreement.
Under current practice, a patent
applicant or patent owner (also referred
to as a patentee) may, in most instances,
obviate nonstatutory double patenting
by filing a terminal disclaimer meeting
the requirements of 37 CFR 1.321(c) or
(d). A terminal disclaimer will ensure
that the term of the patent with the
terminal disclaimer will not extend
beyond the term of the patent forming
the basis of the nonstatutory double
patenting. To prevent the harassment of
an alleged infringer by multiple parties,
under current 37 CFR 1.321(c) or (d) a
terminal disclaimer must state that the
patent in which the terminal disclaimer
is filed shall be enforceable only for and
during the period that the patent is
commonly owned, or commonly
enforced, with the patent which formed
the basis for the nonstatutory double
patenting.
Even with the protections currently
provided by a terminal disclaimer,
multiple patents tied by terminal
disclaimers that are directed to obvious
variants of an invention could deter
competition due to the prohibitive cost
of challenging each patent separately in
litigation or administrative proceedings.
Currently, a terminal disclaimer filed
to obviate nonstatutory double patenting
over a conflicting patent must include a
disclaimer of term, if any, extending
beyond the term of the conflicting
patent and a common ownership or
common enforcement agreement. Under
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00003 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
40440 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules
the proposed rule, the USPTO will not
issue a patent to a common owner or
inventor with a claim that conflicts with
a claim of a second patent unless the
terminal disclaimer includes an
additional agreement that the patent
with the terminal disclaimer will not be
enforced if any claim of the second
patent is invalidated by prior art. That
means to resolve a dispute where there
are multiple patents tied by terminal
disclaimers, competitors could focus on
addressing the validity of the claims of
a single patent. As is the case under
current practice, a terminal disclaimer
under the proposed rule would be
unidirectional, encumbering only the
patent with the terminal disclaimer and
not the conflicting patent. The reason
for this is that a terminal disclaimer is
signed only by the owner of the patent
with the terminal disclaimer, and that
patent and the conflicting patent might
not be commonly owned when the
terminal disclaimer is filed. See 35
U.S.C. 253 (providing for filing of a
terminal disclaimer by the owner of the
patent in which it is filed). The
proposed rule is intended to promote
competition by lowering the cost of
challenging groups of patents tied by
terminal disclaimers, resulting in
reduced barriers to market entry and
lower costs for consumers. The
proposed rule furthers the objectives of
Executive Order 14036 on ‘‘Promoting
Competition in the American
Economy,’’ 86 FR 36987 (July 14, 2021).
As an example of how the proposed
rule would lower costs of challenging
multiple related patents, in a litigation
in which a patent owner is enforcing a
patent along with several other patents
that are tied by one or more terminal
disclaimers to that patent, a competitor
could seek to have the court narrow any
validity disputes to address only that
patent. Narrowing validity disputes in
litigation to only one such patent could
result in more focused claim
construction hearings, lower litigation
costs, and faster resolution. Similarly, a
competitor could petition for an inter
partes or post-grant review of just a
single patent to which multiple patents
are tied by one or more terminal
disclaimers with the proposed
agreement. The outcome of the postgrant challenge to the claims in the
selected patent may also resolve the
enforceability of the multiple patents
tied to that selected patent. Because
only one patent can be challenged per
post-grant petition, the proposed
terminal disclaimer rule would lower
the cost of administrative proceedings
by enabling a challenger to seek the
freedom to operate through the review
of only one patent, as opposed to
seeking the review of a number of
patents claiming obvious variants of a
single invention.
I. Background
A. Request for Comments on Whether
Any Changes Need To Be Made to the
Patent System Regarding Nonstatutory
Double Patenting
In a recent request for comments, the
USPTO sought public input on whether
changes are needed in terminal
disclaimer practice to help ensure that
the U.S. patent system properly and
adequately protects innovation while
not unnecessarily harming competition.
See Request for Comments on USPTO
Initiatives To Ensure the Robustness
and Reliability of Patent Rights, 87 FR
60130 (October 4, 2022) (‘‘Request for
Comments’’). In the Request for
Comments, the USPTO recognized that
existing practice may not adequately
address concerns that multiple patents
directed to obvious variants of an
invention could deter competition if the
number of patents is prohibitively
expensive to challenge in post-grant
proceedings before the PTAB or in
district court. To address this issue, the
Request for Comments asked whether
applicants seeking patents on obvious
variations to prior claims should be
required to stipulate that the claims are
not patentably distinct from the
previously considered claims as a
condition of filing a terminal disclaimer
to obviate an obviousness-type double
patenting rejection. The Request for
Comments also recognized that, under
current practice, patents tied together
with a terminal disclaimer after an
obviousness-type double patenting
rejection must be separately challenged
on validity grounds. The Request for
Comments asked whether the filing of a
terminal disclaimer in these patents
should be an admission of obviousness
and, if so, whether the patents, when
their validity is challenged after
issuance, should stand and fall together.
The USPTO received comments
expressing a range of views on the
questions posed in the Request for
Comments. Some comments supported
the stipulation requirement and the
proposition that the filing of a terminal
disclaimer should be an admission of
obviousness such that patents tied by
terminal disclaimers should stand and
fall together. These include comments
suggesting that a stipulation could
clarify the intrinsic record or simplify
subsequent litigation. Some comments
stated that a stipulation or admission
could reduce the cost and risk of
challenging multiple duplicative patents
and lower drug prices for drugs that are
no longer considered innovative. Some
comments also indicated that a
stipulation could create an incentive for
applicants to address nonstatutory
double patenting questions on the
merits and that this would encourage
innovators to create more inventions,
stimulating investment into innovation.
Other comments opposed the
stipulation requirement and the
proposition that the filing of a terminal
disclaimer should be an admission of
obviousness such that patents tied by
terminal disclaimers should stand and
fall together. These include comments
asserting that the decision of whether to
file a terminal disclaimer is often driven
by a desire to expedite prosecution and
reduce costs rather than by the merits of
the nonstatutory double patenting
rejection, that a stipulation requirement
would cause delays and increase
burdens on applicants, and/or that a
stipulation requirement would
encourage applicants to file a large
number of claims in a single
application. Comments opposed to
treating the filing of a terminal
disclaimer as an admission of
obviousness include comments citing
SimpleAir, Inc. v. Google LLC, 884 F.3d
1160 (Fed. Cir. 2018), or earlier Federal
Circuit cases, for the proposition that a
terminal disclaimer should not be
considered an admission or give rise to
a presumption/estoppel. Comments
opposing the changes in terminal
disclaimer practice discussed in the
Request for Comments also include
comments asserting the following:
validity is determined on a claim-byclaim basis; claims are presumed valid
under 35 U.S.C. 282; the fact that prior
art invalidates a claim in one of two
patents tied together by a terminal
disclaimer does not necessarily mean
that the same prior art would invalidate
a claim in the other patent; and/or these
changes raise questions of due process
and fairness.
In addition, some comments broadly
opposed any changes to terminal
disclaimer practice. Commenters were
concerned that such changes would
increase the burden on applicants. Some
commenters asserted that the stipulation
requirement described in the Request
for Comments would be a substantive
rule that the USPTO does not have
authority to make.
Upon consideration of the comments,
the USPTO has opted not to propose a
rule requiring a stipulation that the
claims are not patentably distinct or an
agreement by the disclaimant that filing
a terminal disclaimer is an admission of
obviousness. The proposed rule does
not concern the validity of claims.
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00004 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40441
Instead, the proposed rule would
require an agreement by the disclaimant
that the patent with the terminal
disclaimer will be enforced only under
certain conditions. To the extent an
applicant believes claims are patentably
distinct, they may either challenge the
rejection or move those claims to an
application in which a terminal
disclaimer has not been, and will not be,
filed. A rule requiring that terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting include language
placing conditions upon enforcement
was previously upheld as within the
USPTO’s rulemaking authority. See In
re Van Ornum, 686 F.2d 937 (CCPA
1982).
B. Current Practice
Nonstatutory double patenting may be
obviated, in most instances, by filing a
terminal disclaimer. The terminal
disclaimer will ensure that the term of
the patent with the terminal disclaimer
will not extend beyond the term of the
patent forming the basis of the
nonstatutory double patenting. In
addition, the enforcement provision of
the terminal disclaimer will prevent the
harassment of an alleged infringer by
multiple parties. Under current USPTO
regulations, two types of terminal
disclaimers may be used to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting. The first
type is filed pursuant to 37 CFR 1.321(c)
and must include a provision that the
patent in which the terminal disclaimer
is filed (that is, the subject patent) or
any patent granted on the application in
which the terminal disclaimer is filed
(that is, any patent granted on the
subject application) shall be enforceable
only for and during the period that the
subject patent or any patent granted on
the subject application is commonly
owned with the reference patent or any
patent granted on the reference
application which formed the basis for
the nonstatutory double patenting. The
second type is filed pursuant to 37 CFR
1.321(d) and must include a provision
that the subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application shall
be enforceable only for and during such
period that the subject patent or any
patent granted on the subject
application and the reference patent or
any patent granted on the reference
application which formed the basis for
the nonstatutory double patenting are
not separately enforced. The second
type obviates nonstatutory double
patenting based on a non-commonly
owned reference patent or application
that is excepted or disqualified as prior
art as a result of the subject matter of the
reference patent or application and the
claimed invention in the subject patent
or application being treated as
commonly owned on the basis of a joint
research agreement.
Currently, claims in patents tied by a
terminal disclaimer filed under 37 CFR
1.321(c) or (d) to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting must be separately
challenged on validity grounds. See 35
U.S.C. 282(a); see also SimpleAir, Inc. v.
Google LLC, 884 F.3d 1160, 1167–68
(Fed. Cir. 2018) (‘‘[O]ur cases foreclose
the inference that filing a terminal
disclaimer functions as an admission
regarding the patentability of the
resulting claims.’’); Motionless Keyboard
Co. v. Microsoft Corp., 486 F.3d 1376,
1385 (Fed. Cir. 2007) (‘‘A terminal
disclaimer simply is not an admission
that a later-filed invention is obvious.’’);
Ortho Pharm. Corp. v. Smith, 959 F.2d
936, 941 (Fed. Cir. 1992) (rejecting the
argument that the patent applicant
admitted to obviousness-type double
patenting by filing a terminal
disclaimer); Quad Envtl. Techs. Corp. v.
Union Sanitary Dist., 946 F.2d 870, 874
(Fed. Cir. 1991) (‘‘[T]he filing of a
terminal disclaimer simply serves the
statutory function of removing the
rejection of double patenting, and raises
neither presumption nor estoppel on the
merits of the rejection.’’). The current
state of the law exposes competitors
attempting to enter the market to
potentially high costs because they may
have to defend against patents to
obvious variants of a single invention
despite the presence of terminal
disclaimers.
II. Proposed Changes
A. Changes to Current Practice
The USPTO proposes to revise the
enforcement provisions in 37 CFR
1.321(c) and (d) to require that a
terminal disclaimer filed to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting include
an agreement by the disclaimant that the
subject patent or any patent granted on
the subject application shall be
enforceable only if the patent is not tied
and has never been tied directly or
indirectly to a patent by one or more
terminal disclaimers filed to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting in which:
(1) any claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid under 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 (statutory provisions for
anticipation or obviousness as referred
to in the SUMMARY above) by a Federal
court in a civil action or by the USPTO,
and all appeal rights have been
exhausted; or (2) a statutory disclaimer
of a claim is filed after any challenge
based on 35 U.S.C. 102 or 103 to that
claim has been made. The new
requirement for a terminal disclaimer in
this proposed rule differs from the
stipulation described in the Request for
Comments discussed above. See 87 FR
at 60134. Specifically, the proposed rule
does not require an applicant or a
patentee to make a statement in the
terminal disclaimer regarding
conflicting claims being patentably
indistinct. The new requirement has the
likely advantages of reducing litigation
and administrative proceeding costs and
increasing predictability compared with
the stipulation requirement in the
Request for Comments because a
comparison of claims is not necessary to
determine which claims are subject to a
stipulation (or an agreement), including
claims that are amended during
prosecution after the terminal
disclaimer is filed. The proposed
agreement would not affect the validity
of the claims in the subject patent or any
patent granted on the subject
application because it is a voluntary
agreement by the patentee that the
patent with the terminal disclaimer will
be enforceable only under certain
conditions and does not touch on the
validity of the claims. The new
requirement solves the current problem
of requiring a competitor to invalidate
multiple patents tied by terminal
disclaimers in order to have the freedom
to operate. To the extent an applicant
believes claims are patentably distinct,
they may either challenge the rejection
or move those claims to an application
in which a terminal disclaimer has not
been, and will not be, filed.
(1) Meaning of Direct and Indirect Tying
a. Direct Tying—By One Terminal
Disclaimer
The subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application is
tied directly by a terminal disclaimer to
another patent when: (1) the terminal
disclaimer is filed in the subject patent
or application; and (2) the other patent,
or the application that issued as the
other patent, is the reference patent or
application identified in the terminal
disclaimer. The tying by a terminal
disclaimer is unidirectional and is
effective only for the patent with the
terminal disclaimer. Therefore, a
terminal disclaimer that directly ties a
subject patent or any patent granted on
a subject application to a reference
patent or any patent granted on a
reference application does not directly
tie the reference patent or any patent
granted on the reference application to
the subject patent or any patent granted
on the subject application. Direct tying
is illustrated by example 1 in section
(II)(A)(3) below.
If timely requested, a recorded
terminal disclaimer may be withdrawn
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00005 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
40442 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules
before the application in which it is
filed issues as a patent, or if a terminal
disclaimer is filed in a reexamination
proceeding, before the reexamination
certificate issues. See section 1490,
subsection VIII of the Manual of Patent
Examining Procedure (MPEP) (Ninth
Edition, Revision 07.2022, February
2023). After a patent or reexamination
certificate issues, a recorded terminal
disclaimer will not be nullified. Id. For
a terminal disclaimer filed in a patent,
the recorded terminal disclaimer is
considered part of the original patent.
See 35 U.S.C. 253(b) and 37 CFR
1.321(a). By contrast, a terminal
disclaimer filed in a reexamination
proceeding is a proposed amendment to
the patent that does not take effect until
the reexamination certificate issues. See
MPEP 2288.
Where a terminal disclaimer is filed
in an application, if the terminal
disclaimer is withdrawn before a patent
issues from the application, then the
patent containing the withdrawn
terminal disclaimer is not tied and has
never been tied to the patent identified
in the withdrawn terminal disclaimer
(or to any patent granted on the
application identified in the withdrawn
terminal disclaimer).
b. Indirect Tying—By Two or More
Terminal Disclaimers
The subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application is
tied indirectly by two terminal
disclaimers to another patent when: (1)
a terminal disclaimer filed in the subject
patent or application identifies an
intermediate patent/application as the
reference patent or application; and (2)
a terminal disclaimer filed in the
intermediate patent/application
identifies the other patent, or the
application that issued as the other
patent, as the reference patent or
application. This is illustrated by
example 2 in section (II)(A)(3) below.
As discussed above with respect to
direct tying, terminal disclaimers may
be withdrawn from an application in
certain circumstances. The following
four illustrations show the effect on
tying of withdrawing a terminal
disclaimer from an intermediate
application where a terminal disclaimer
is also filed in a subject application.
(1) Where the terminal disclaimer
filed in the intermediate application
identifies the other patent and is
withdrawn before a patent is granted on
the subject application, the patent
granted on the subject application was
never tied indirectly to the other patent.
(2) Where the terminal disclaimer
filed in the intermediate application
identifies the other patent and is
withdrawn after a patent is granted on
the subject application, the indirect
tying to the other patent is undone but
the patent granted on the subject
application was at one point tied
indirectly to the other patent.
(3) Where the terminal disclaimer
filed in the intermediate application
identifies the application that later
issues as the other patent and is
withdrawn before a patent is granted on
the subject application or before the
other patent issues, the patent granted
on the subject application was never
tied indirectly to the other patent.
(4) Where the terminal disclaimer
filed in the intermediate application
identifies the application that later
issues as the other patent and is
withdrawn after a patent is granted on
the subject application and after the
other patent issues, the indirect tying to
the other patent is undone but the
patent granted on the subject
application was at one point tied
indirectly to the other patent.
Tying by more than two terminal
disclaimers is illustrated by example 3
in section (II)(A)(3) below.
(2) Meaning of ‘‘A Claim Has Been
Finally Held Unpatentable or Invalid’’
The term ‘‘finally held unpatentable’’
refers to a final determination by the
USPTO in a trial established by the
Leahy-Smith America Invents Act (AIA)
(Pub. L. 112–29 (2011)) or a
reexamination proceeding that one or
more claims in a patent are
unpatentable after all appeals have been
concluded or appeal rights exhausted.
The term ‘‘finally held . . . invalid’’
relates to a final decision entered in a
Federal court in a civil action holding
one or more claims of a patent invalid
after all appeals have been concluded or
appeal rights exhausted. The proposed
agreement is independent of the relative
timing of the terminal disclaimer and
the final holding of unpatentability or
invalidity over prior art. Additionally,
the proposed agreement cannot be
avoided by filing a statutory disclaimer
of a claim under 35 U.S.C. 253(a) after
any challenge based on 35 U.S.C. 102 or
103 to that claim has been made.
(3) Examples
The following examples illustrate the
meaning of: (1) direct and indirect tying
in the proposed rule, and (2) the
possible consequences of the agreement
in the proposed rule.
In the examples, all terminal
disclaimers include the agreement in
the proposed rule and are filed to
obviate nonstatutory double patenting,
unless otherwise noted.
A single capital letter identifies both
an application and any patent that
issues from that application, with the
letter ‘‘A’’ in parentheses used to
identify the application and the letter
‘‘P’’ in parentheses used to identify the
patent. Thus, X(P) is any patent that has
issued from application X(A).
An arrow represents a terminal
disclaimer filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting. The arrow starts at the
subject patent or application and points
toward the reference patent or
application.
The patents and applications in these
examples may be in the same patent
family or in a different patent family.
The enumeration of the terminal
disclaimers using terms such as ‘‘first,’’
‘‘second,’’ etc. does not refer to when
the terminal disclaimers are filed but is
instead used for identification purposes.
Example 1
The subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application is
tied directly to the reference patent or
any patent granted on the reference
application by a terminal disclaimer
filed in the subject patent or application
to obviate nonstatutory double patenting
based on the reference patent or
application.
Thus, if a terminal disclaimer is filed
in X(P) or X(A) identifying W(P) or
W(A) as a reference patent or
application, then X(P) is tied directly to
W(P). Example 1 may be represented
visually as:
W ← X
The tying by a terminal disclaimer is
unidirectional. Therefore, in this
example, W(P) is not tied to X(P) by the
terminal disclaimer filed in X.
In this example, X(P) is the subject
patent or any patent granted on the
subject application, and W(P) is the
reference patent or any patent granted
on the reference application. As a result,
if a claim of W(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art,
X(P) may not be enforced. However, if
a claim of X(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art,
W(P) may still be enforced because a
terminal disclaimer with the agreement
in the proposed rule was not filed in W
identifying X as a reference patent or
application.
If the terminal disclaimer filed in
X(A) is withdrawn before X(A) issues as
a patent, then X(P) may be enforced
even if a claim in W(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art
because X(P) was never tied to W(P).
We can further explain example 1 in
practical terms. For instance, applicant
overcomes a nonstatutory double
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00006 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40443
patenting rejection in application X(A)
based on reference patent W(P) by filing
a terminal disclaimer with the
agreement in the proposed rule, thereby
obtaining patent X(P). Under the current
rule, both patents X(P) and W(P) may
block competitors and need to be
separately invalidated or licensed to
gain freedom to operate. Under the
proposed rule, if a claim of patent W(P)
is finally held invalid or unpatentable
over prior art, competitors would avoid
the enforcement of patent X(P) based on
the agreement in the proposed rule in
the terminal disclaimer in patent X(P).
However, if a claim of patent X(P) is
finally held invalid or unpatentable over
prior art, competitors would not be able
to, solely on this basis, avoid the
enforcement of patent W(P) because a
terminal disclaimer containing the
proposed agreement was not filed in W
identifying X as a reference patent or
application.
Additionally, multiple subject patents
or applications may have terminal
disclaimers identifying the same
reference patent or application. Under
the proposed rule, if a claim of the
reference patent or any patent granted
on the reference application is finally
held invalid or unpatentable over prior
art, competitors would avoid the
enforcement of these multiple patents
based on the proposed agreement in the
terminal disclaimers filed in these
patents.
Example 2
Extending example 1 (where the
terminal disclaimer filed in X includes
the proposed agreement), if a second
terminal disclaimer is filed in Y(P) or
Y(A) identifying X(P) or X(A) as a
reference patent or application, then
Y(P) is tied indirectly to W(P). This
would be the case even if X(A) is
abandoned or remains pending.
Example 2 may be represented visually
as:
W ← X ← Y
Consistent with example 1, Y(P) is
tied directly to X(P), and X(P) is tied
directly to W(P). In this example, X(P)
or X(A), as the case may be, is an
intermediate patent/application because
the two terminal disclaimers tie Y(P) to
W(P).
In this example, W(P) is not tied to
X(P) or Y(P), and X(P) is not tied to Y(P).
In this example, Y(P) is a subject
patent or any patent granted on a subject
application for the terminal disclaimer
filed in Y, and W(P) is a reference patent
or any patent granted on a reference
application for the terminal disclaimer
filed in X. In this example, X is an
intermediate patent/application that is
the reference patent or application for
the terminal disclaimer filed in Y and
the subject patent or application for the
terminal disclaimer filed in X. As a
result, if a claim of W(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art,
and the terminal disclaimer in Y(P)
contains the proposed agreement, Y(P)
may not be enforced.
As in example 1, if a claim of W(P)
is finally held unpatentable or invalid
over prior art, X(P) may not be enforced.
Similarly, if a claim of X(P) is finally
held unpatentable or invalid over prior
art, Y(P) may not be enforced.
If the terminal disclaimer filed in
X(A) identifying W(P) is withdrawn
before Y(A) issues as a patent, then Y(P)
would still be enforceable in the event
that a claim in W(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art
because Y(P) was never tied to W(P). On
the other hand, if the terminal
disclaimer filed in X(A) identifying
W(P) is withdrawn after Y(A) has issued
as a patent, then Y(P) may not be
enforced in the event that a claim in
W(P) is finally held unpatentable or
invalid over prior art because Y(P) was
once tied to W(P).
Note that even if the terminal
disclaimer filed in X did not contain the
proposed agreement (because it was
filed prior to the implementation of this
proposed rule), Y(P) is still tied to W(P).
In this situation, if a claim in W(P) is
finally held unpatentable or invalid over
prior art, X(P) may still be enforced
(because the terminal disclaimer filed in
X does not contain the proposed
agreement) even though Y(P) may not be
enforced.
Example 3
Indirect tying may also occur through
multiple intermediate patents/
applications. Extending example 2, if a
third terminal disclaimer is filed in Z(P)
or Z(A) identifying Y(P) or Y(A) as a
reference patent or application, then
Z(P) is tied indirectly to W(P). This
would be the case even if X(A) and/or
Y(A) are/is abandoned or remain(s)
pending. Example 3 may be represented
visually as:
W ← X ← Y ← Z
In this example, all the tying
relationships of example 2 remain.
Also in this example, Z(P) is a subject
patent or any patent granted on a subject
application for the terminal disclaimer
filed in Z, and W(P) is a reference patent
or any patent granted on a reference
application for the terminal disclaimer
filed in X. X(P) or X(A) and Y(P) or
Y(A), as the case may be, are
intermediate patents/applications
because the three terminal disclaimers
tie Z(P) to W(P). As a result, if a claim
of W(P) is finally held unpatentable or
invalid over prior art and if the terminal
disclaimer filed in Z(A) contains the
proposed agreement, Z(P) may not be
enforced.
As in example 2, if a claim of W(P)
is finally held unpatentable or invalid
over prior art, Y(P) and X(P) may not be
enforced; if a claim of X(P) is finally
held unpatentable or invalid over prior
art, Y(P) and Z(P) may not be enforced;
and if a claim of Y(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art,
Z(P) may not be enforced.
Example 4
This example shows three patents tied
directly and indirectly by terminal
disclaimers. In this example, a first
terminal disclaimer is filed in X(P) or
X(A) identifying W(P) or W(A) as a
reference patent or application, directly
tying X(P) to W(P).
W ← X
A second terminal disclaimer is filed
in W(P) or W(A) identifying X(P) or
X(A) as a reference patent or
application, directly tying W(P) to X(P).
W u X
A third terminal disclaimer is filed in
Y(P) or Y(A) identifying X(P) or X(A) as
a reference patent or application,
directly tying Y(P) to X(P).
W u X ← Y
A fourth terminal disclaimer is filed
in X(P) or X(A) identifying Y(P) or Y(A)
as a reference patent or application,
directly tying X(P) to Y(P).
W u X u Y
A fifth terminal disclaimer is filed in
Y(P) or Y(A) identifying W(P) or W(A)
as a reference patent or application,
directly tying Y(P) to W(P).
W ← Y
A sixth terminal disclaimer is filed in
W(P) or W(A) identifying Y(P) or Y(A)
as a reference patent or application,
directly tying W(P) to Y(P).
W u Y
Example 4 may be represented
visually as:
W u X u Y and W u Y
In this example, in addition to W(P),
X(P), and Y(P) each being directly tied
to one another, they each are indirectly
tied to one another. As a result, if a
claim in any one of W(P), X(P), or Y(P)
is finally held unpatentable or invalid
over prior art and if the terminal
disclaimers filed in W, X, and Y contain
the proposed agreement, the other two
patents may not be enforced.
Example 5
The following example illustrates two
patents that are not indirectly tied by
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00007 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
40444 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules
terminal disclaimers even though each
has a terminal disclaimer identifying the
same reference patent or application,
due to the unidirectionality of tying by
a terminal disclaimer.
In this example, a first terminal
disclaimer is filed in X(P) or X(A)
identifying Y(P) or Y(A) as a reference
patent or application, and a second
terminal disclaimer is filed in Z(P) or
Z(A) identifying Y(P) or Y(A) as a
reference patent or application. Example
5 may be represented visually as:
X → Y ← Z
In this example, X(P) and Z(P) are
both tied directly to Y(P). As a result, if
a claim in Y(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art
and if the proposed agreement is
contained in the terminal disclaimers
filed in X and Z, X(P) and Z(P) cannot
be enforced.
However, Z(P) is not tied to X(P), X(P)
is not tied to Z(P), and Y(P) is not tied
to either X(P) or Z(P). Thus, if a claim
in X(P) or Z(P) is finally held
unpatentable or invalid over prior art,
there is no effect on whether the other
two patents may be enforced.
(4) Ways To Address Nonstatutory
Double Patenting
To obviate nonstatutory double
patenting, patent owners and applicants
can voluntarily file a terminal
disclaimer with the proposed
agreement. If applicants and patent
owners are concerned about the new
requirement and seek to avoid the
consequences of the proposed
agreement, applicants and patent
owners have the option of not filing a
terminal disclaimer with the proposed
agreement. The nonstatutory double
patenting may be dealt with in a number
of ways.
An applicant facing a nonstatutory
double patenting rejection in an
application has a number of options to
avoid filing a terminal disclaimer with
the proposed agreement such as:
(1) combining the conflicting claims
into a single application,
(2) canceling or amending any
conflicting claims in the application or
in the other application containing the
conflicting claims that formed the basis
of the nonstatutory double patenting,
(3) arguing that rejected claims in the
application are patentably distinct from
the claims of the reference patent or
application, or
(4) filing a reissue application of the
patent whose claims formed the basis of
the nonstatutory double patenting in
order to add canceled conflicting claims
from the application into the reissue
application, provided that the added
claims do not introduce new matter into
the reissue application.
Alternatively, an applicant may
separate the patentably distinct claims
into another application and file a
terminal disclaimer with the proposed
agreement in the application with the
indistinct claims.
If the applicant amends the claims
after the filing of the terminal disclaimer
such that the claims no longer conflict
with the claims in the reference patent
or application, the applicant may file a
petition under 37 CFR 1.182 to
withdraw the terminal disclaimer prior
to the issuance of the application to
avoid the effect of the proposed
agreement on patentably distinct claims
and any potential loss of patent term. As
discussed above, after patent grant, a
recorded terminal disclaimer will not be
withdrawn. See MPEP 1490, subsection
VIII.
B. Changes Consistent With Current
Practice
(1) Who May File a Disclaimer
The proposed rule makes no change
to who may file a terminal disclaimer.
Consistent with 35 U.S.C. 253, the
USPTO proposes to refer to the party
with the ownership interest making the
disclaimer in 37 CFR 1.321 as the
‘‘disclaimant’’ rather than the patentee,
applicant, assignee, or grantee as
currently prescribed in the regulations.
(2) Clarify That a Terminal Disclaimer
Can Be Filed in a Patent To Obviate
Nonstatutory Double Patenting
Current 37 CFR 1.321(c) and (d) state
that a terminal disclaimer may be filed
in an application or in a reexamination
proceeding but do not explicitly state
that the terminal disclaimer to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting can be
filed in a patent not subject to a
reexamination proceeding. Consistent
with the guidance set forth in the MPEP,
a terminal disclaimer may be filed in a
patent under 37 CFR 1.321(c) or (d) that
is not subject to a reexamination
proceeding. See MPEP 1490, subsection
II. Proposed 37 CFR 1.321(c) and (d) are
amended to explicitly state that a
terminal disclaimer may be filed in a
patent to obviate nonstatutory double
patenting.
(3) Changes To Reflect Current
Terminology in the MPEP
Consistent with current usage in the
MPEP (see, for example, chapters 800
and 1400), the USPTO proposes the
following changes in 37 CFR 1.321: (1)
replace ‘‘judicially created double
patenting’’ with the phrase
‘‘nonstatutory double patenting,’’ (2)
refer to the patent in which a terminal
disclaimer is filed and the patent subject
to a reexamination proceeding in which
the terminal disclaimer is filed as the
‘‘subject patent,’’ (3) refer to the
application in which a terminal
disclaimer is filed as the ‘‘subject
application,’’ and (4) refer to the patent
or application forming the basis for the
nonstatutory double patenting as the
‘‘reference patent or application.’’
(4) Changes To Conform With Current
Language in the MPEP
MPEP 1490, subsection VII, provides
examples of acceptable terminal
disclaimer language to use for terminal
disclaimers filed under 37 CFR 1.321(c)
or (d). In a few of the examples, the
language states that the patentee/
applicant agrees to the enforcement
provision of current 37 CFR 1.321(c)(3)
or (d)(3). Consistent with this guidance
set forth in the MPEP, the USPTO
proposes to amend 37 CFR 1.321(c)(3)
and (d)(3) by adding ‘‘agreeing’’ in the
enforcement provision.
III. Discussion of Proposed Rules
The following is a discussion of
proposed amendments to 37 CFR part 1:
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(a) and (b) by replacing ‘‘grantee’’
with ‘‘disclaimant.’’
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(a)(3) by replacing ‘‘patentee’s
ownership interest’’ with ‘‘the
disclaimant’s ownership interest.’’
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(b)(1) by redesignating current
§ 1.321(b)(1) as § 1.321(b)(1)(i) and
adding new subparagraph
§ 1.321(b)(1)(ii) to incorporate the
requirements of § 1.321(b)(1) in effect on
September 15, 2012. This proposal
eliminates the need for the public to
consult § 1.321 in effect on September
15, 2012, when filing a terminal
disclaimer in an application filed before
September 16, 2012, and makes the
proposed § 1.321 applicable to all
applications, regardless of their filing
date. ‘‘Inventor’’ and ‘‘applicant’’ are no
longer synonymous for applications
filed on or after September 16, 2012. See
MPEP 605 and Changes To Implement
the Inventor’s Oath or Declaration
Provisions of the Leahy-Smith America
Invents Act, 77 FR 48776, 48778–79
(August 14, 2012) (final rule). The term
‘‘applicant’’ in proposed § 1.321(b)(1)(i)
can include an inventor(s), an
assignee(s), or others with a sufficient
proprietary interest, whereas the term
‘‘applicant’’ in proposed § 1.321(b)(1)(ii)
refers to the inventor(s).
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(b)(3) by replacing ‘‘applicant’s
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00008 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40445
ownership interest’’ with ‘‘the
disclaimant’s ownership interest.’’
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(c) by replacing ‘‘judicially
created double patenting’’ with
‘‘nonstatutory double patenting.’’
Additionally, proposed § 1.321(c)
would explicitly provide for the filing of
a terminal disclaimer in a patent not
subject to a reexamination proceeding.
As is the case today, when a terminal
disclaimer under proposed § 1.321(c) is
filed to obviate nonstatutory double
patenting in a reexamination
proceeding, it should be filed in the
reexamination proceeding and not in
the patent file. See 37 CFR 1.321(c) and
MPEP 1490, subsection III.A.
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(c)(3) by adding ‘‘agreeing,’’
which is consistent with current
practice (see MPEP 1490, subsection
VII).
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(d) to specify that the type of
double patenting that may be obviated
by filing a terminal disclaimer is
‘‘nonstatutory double patenting.’’
Additionally, proposed § 1.321(d)
would explicitly provide for the filing of
a terminal disclaimer in a patent not
subject to a reexamination proceeding.
As is the case today, when a terminal
disclaimer under proposed § 1.321(d) is
filed to obviate nonstatutory double
patenting in a reexamination
proceeding, it should be filed in the
reexamination proceeding and not in
the patent file. See 37 CFR 1.321(d) and
MPEP 1490, subsection III.A.
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(d)(3) by adding ‘‘agreeing,’’
which is consistent with current
practice (see MPEP 1490, subsection
VII).
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(c), (c)(3), (d), and (d)(3) to
identify the patent or application
forming the basis for the nonstatutory
double patenting as the ‘‘reference
patent or application.’’
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(c)(2), (c)(3), (d)(2), and (d)(3) to
identify an application in which a
terminal disclaimer is filed to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting as a
‘‘subject application’’ and a patent in
which a terminal disclaimer is filed to
obviate nonstatutory double patenting
as a ‘‘subject patent.’’ The term ‘‘subject
patent’’ includes both patents that are
undergoing a reexamination proceeding
and patents that are not undergoing a
reexamination proceeding.
The USPTO proposes to amend
§ 1.321(c)(3) and (d)(3) to require that a
terminal disclaimer filed to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting include
an agreement by the disclaimant that the
patent in which the terminal disclaimer
is filed, or any patent granted on an
application in which the terminal
disclaimer is filed, will be enforceable
only if the patent is not tied and has
never been tied directly or indirectly to
a patent by one or more terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting in which: (1) any
claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid under 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 in a Federal court in a civil
action or at the USPTO, and all appeal
rights have been exhausted; or (2) a
statutory disclaimer of a claim is filed
after any challenge based on 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 to that claim has been made.
IV. Rulemaking Considerations
A. Administrative Procedure Act
The changes proposed by this
rulemaking involve rules of agency
practice and procedure, and/or
interpretive rules, and do not require
notice-and-comment rulemaking. See
Perez v. Mortg. Bankers Ass’n, 575 U.S.
92, 97, 101 (2015) (explaining that
interpretive rules ‘‘advise the public of
the agency’s construction of the statutes
and rules which it administers’’ and do
not require notice and comment when
issued or amended); Cooper Techs. Co.
v. Dudas, 536 F.3d 1330, 1336–37 (Fed.
Cir. 2008) (stating that 5 U.S.C. 553, and
thus 35 U.S.C. 2(b)(2)(B), do not require
notice-and- comment rulemaking for
‘‘interpretative rules, general statements
of policy, or rules of agency
organization, procedure, or practice’’);
and JEM Broadcasting Co. v. F.C.C., 22
F.3d 320, 328 (D.C. Cir. 1994)
(explaining that rules are not legislative
because they do not ‘‘foreclose effective
opportunity to make one’s case on the
merits’’).
Nevertheless, the USPTO is
publishing this proposed rule for
comment to seek the benefit of the
public’s views on the Office’s proposed
regulatory changes.
B. Regulatory Flexibility Act (RFA)
For the following reasons, the Senior
Counsel for Regulatory and Legislative
Affairs of the USPTO has certified to the
Chief Counsel for Advocacy of the Small
Business Administration that this rule
will not have a significant economic
impact on a substantial number of small
entities. See 5 U.S.C. 605(b).
The USPTO is proposing to revise the
enforcement provisions in § 1.321(c)
and (d) to require that a terminal
disclaimer filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting include an agreement
by the disclaimant that the subject
patent, or any patent granted on the
subject application, shall be enforceable
only if the patent is not tied and has
never been tied directly or indirectly to
a patent by one or more terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting: (1) in which any
claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid under 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 by a Federal court in a civil
action or by the USPTO, and all appeal
rights have been exhausted; or (2) in
which a statutory disclaimer of a claim
is filed after any challenge based on 35
U.S.C. 102 or 103 to that claim has been
made. Thus, the rulemaking does not
propose to substantively change when
an applicant or patent owner may file a
terminal disclaimer under § 1.321.
The Small Business Administration
(SBA) small business size standards that
are applicable to most analyses
conducted to comply with the RFA are
set forth in 13 CFR 121.201. These
regulations generally define small
businesses as those with fewer than a
specified maximum number of
employees or less than a specified level
of annual receipts for the entity’s
industrial sector or North American
Industry Classification System (NAICS)
code. As provided by the RFA, and after
consulting with the SBA, the USPTO
formally adopted an alternate size
standard for the purpose of conducting
an analysis or making a certification
under the RFA for patent-related
regulations. See Business Size Standard
for Purposes of United States Patent and
Trademark Office Regulatory Flexibility
Analysis for Patent-Related Regulations,
71 FR 67109 (Nov. 20, 2006), 1313 Off.
Gaz. Pat. Office 60 (Dec. 12, 2006). The
USPTO’s alternate small business size
standard is SBA’s previously
established size standard that identifies
the criteria entities must meet to be
entitled to pay reduced patent fees. See
13 CFR 121.802. If patent applicants
identify themselves on a patent
application as qualifying for reduced
patent fees, the USPTO captures this
data in its patent application data
repository (formerly the Patent
Application Monitoring and Locating
(PALM) system and now called the One
Patent Service Gateway (OPSG) system),
which tracks information on each patent
application submitted to the Office.
Unlike the SBA small business size
standards set forth in 13 CFR 121.201,
the size standard for the USPTO is not
industry specific. The Office’s definition
of a small business concern for RFA
purposes is a business or other concern
that: (1) meets the SBA’s definition of a
‘‘business concern or concern’’ set forth
in 13 CFR 121.105; and (2) meets the
size standards set forth in 13 CFR
121.802 for the purpose of paying
reduced patent fees, namely, an entity:
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00009 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
40446 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules
1This cost represents the report’s median charges
for services categorized as ‘‘Application
amendment/argument, relatively complex—
biotech/chemical’’ and ‘‘Application amendment/
argument, relatively complex—electrical/
computer.’’
(a) whose number of employees,
including affiliates, does not exceed 500
persons; and (b) which has not assigned,
granted, conveyed, or licensed (and is
under no obligation to do so) any rights
in the invention to any person who
made it and could not be classified as
an independent inventor, or to any
concern that would not qualify as a
nonprofit organization or a small
business concern under this definition.
See Business Size Standard for Purposes
of United States Patent and Trademark
Office Regulatory Flexibility Analysis for
Patent-Related Regulations, 71 FR at
67112 (Nov. 20, 2006), 1313 Off. Gaz.
Pat. Office at 63 (Dec. 12, 2006). For
purposes of this certification, the
USPTO defines small entities to include
entities who are paying small or micro
entity fee rates at the USPTO.
The USPTO estimates that
approximately 20% of applicants and
patent owners (including small entity
applicants and patent owners, who
account for approximately 27% of
patent filings) that are considering the
filing of a terminal disclaimer to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting will opt
not to file a terminal disclaimer
containing the proposed agreement, at
least during an initial period after the
effective date of the final rule. As
mentioned earlier herein, applicants
and patent owners who choose not to
file a terminal disclaimer with the
proposed agreement have a number of
alternatives to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting. The USPTO estimates
that the vast majority of applicants and
patent owners who choose not to file a
terminal disclaimer with the proposed
agreement will opt to argue and/or
amend claims to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting.
The number of instances in which
applicants and patent owners have to
obviate nonstatutory double patenting is
relatively low. The USPTO issues
roughly 650,000 nonfinal and final
Office actions per fiscal year, of which
175,500 (or 27%) are issued to small
entities. Of the 175,500 Office actions
issued to small entities, approximately
14%, or approximately 24,570, contain
at least one nonstatutory double
patenting rejection, and approximately
4%, or approximately 7,020, contain
only a nonstatutory double patenting
rejection(s).
To estimate the potential impact on
small entities from this proposed
rulemaking, the USPTO refers to the
2023 Report of the Economic Survey,
published by the Committee on
Economics of Legal Practice of the
American Intellectual Property Law
Association, which estimates a median
cost of $3,500 per Office action
response.1
For purposes of this certification, the
USPTO estimates that all of the
approximately 20% of the small entity
applicants and patent owners who the
USPTO estimates will choose not to file
a terminal disclaimer with the proposed
agreement will opt to argue and/or
amend claims to obviate the
nonstatutory double patenting
rejection(s). The USPTO therefore
estimates that the proposed rulemaking
could have a potential annual cost to
small entities of $17,199,000 (24,570 ×
20% × $3,500) for responding to an
Office action containing at least one
nonstatutory double patenting rejection
by arguing and/or amending claims,
rather by than filing a terminal
disclaimer.
Furthermore, the USPTO estimates
that, on the upper range, approximately
50%, or approximately 2,457 (24,570 ×
20% × 50%), of the responses filed will
fail to obviate at least one nonstatutory
double patenting rejection. These cases
may potentially incur the additional
cost to small entities of $8,599,500
(2,457 × $3,500) to respond to an
additional Office action. Therefore, the
USPTO estimates that the upper range
of cost that the proposed rulemaking
could have on the approximately 20%
of potentially impacted small entities is
$25,798,500 ($17,199,000 + $8,599,500).
The estimated cost will therefore not
affect a substantial number
(approximately 20%) of small entities.
For at least two reasons, the USPTO
believes these estimates to represent the
upper range of the potential impact on
small entities. First, the preceding
estimates do not account for the cost
savings, including filing fee savings,
from not filing a terminal disclaimer.
The USPTO charges a fee of $170 for
filing a terminal disclaimer. Based on
the estimated 4,914 small entity
applicants that opt to not file a terminal
disclaimer, the USPTO estimates
terminal disclaimer filing fee savings of
$835,380. In addition, the USPTO
estimates that it takes an estimated 0.25
hours (15 minutes) for applicants and
patent owners to file a terminal
disclaimer. The 2023 Report of the
Economic Survey estimates an hourly
attorney fee of $447. Based on the
estimated 4,914 small entity applicants
that opt to not file a terminal disclaimer,
the USPTO estimates cost savings of
$549,140. Therefore, the total cost
savings for those not filing a terminal
disclaimer because of the proposed
rulemaking is $1,384,520.
Second, the preceding cost estimates
are based on all Office actions
containing at least one nonstatutory
double patenting rejection, including
Office actions containing at least one
other rejection that is not a nonstatutory
double patenting rejection. As stated
above, the USPTO estimates that 7,020
Office actions contain only a
nonstatutory double patenting
rejection(s). Thus, in 17,550
(24,570¥7,020) Office actions, small
entity applicants and patent owners
would have to respond to at least one
rejection that is not a nonstatutory
double patenting rejection. It therefore
follows that at least some portions of the
annual costs in the preceding estimates
for these 17,550 Office actions should be
excluded as they would be attributed to
responding to those other rejection(s).
Thus, the total upper range of
estimated cost to the 24,570 small entity
applicants and patent owners impacted
by this rule would be $24,413,980
($25,798,500¥$1,384,520). The USPTO
does not have the data to determine the
distribution of this cost across the
24,570 small entity applicants and
patent owners that would be impacted
by this rule. Thus, for purposes of this
certification, the USPTO estimates an
average of less than $1,000 in impact to
the 24,570 small entities. However, as
mentioned above, this estimate is likely
to be overstated as some of that impact
would be attributed to costs related to
responding to a rejection that is not a
nonstatutory double patenting rejection.
For the foregoing reasons, the changes
proposed in this rulemaking will not
have a significant economic impact on
a substantial number of small entities.
C. Executive Order 12866 (Regulatory
Planning and Review)
This rulemaking has been determined
to be not significant under Executive
Order 12866 (September 30, 1993), as
amended by Executive Order 14094
(April 6, 2023).
D. Executive Order 13563 (Improving
Regulation and Regulatory Review)
The USPTO has complied with
Executive Order 13563 (January 18,
2011). Specifically, and as discussed
above, the USPTO has, to the extent
feasible and applicable: (1) made a
reasoned determination that the benefits
justify the costs of the rule; (2) tailored
the rule to impose the least burden on
society consistent with obtaining the
regulatory objectives; (3) selected a
regulatory approach that maximizes net
benefits; (4) specified performance
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00010 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40447
objectives; (5) identified and assessed
available alternatives; (6) involved the
public in an open exchange of
information and perspectives among
experts in relevant disciplines, affected
stakeholders in the private sector, and
the public as a whole, and provided
online access to the rulemaking docket;
(7) attempted to promote coordination,
simplification, and harmonization
across government agencies and
identified goals designed to promote
innovation; (8) considered approaches
that reduce burdens and maintain
flexibility and freedom of choice for the
public; and (9) ensured the objectivity of
scientific and technological information
and processes.
E. Executive Order 13132 (Federalism)
This rulemaking pertains strictly to
Federal agency procedures and does not
contain policies with federalism
implications sufficient to warrant the
preparation of a Federalism Assessment
under Executive Order 13132 (August 4,
1999).
F. Executive Order 13175 (Tribal
Consultation)
This rulemaking will not: (1) have
substantial direct effects on one or more
Indian Tribes; (2) impose substantial
direct compliance costs on Indian Tribal
governments; or (3) preempt Tribal law.
Therefore, a Tribal summary impact
statement is not required under
Executive Order 13175 (November 6,
2000).
G. Executive Order 13211 (Energy
Effects)
This rulemaking is not a significant
energy action under Executive Order
13211 because this rulemaking is not
likely to have a significant adverse effect
on the supply, distribution, or use of
energy. Therefore, a Statement of Energy
Effects is not required under Executive
Order 13211 (May 18, 2001).
H. Executive Order 12988 (Civil Justice
Reform)
This rulemaking meets applicable
standards to minimize litigation,
eliminate ambiguity, and reduce burden
as set forth in sections 3(a) and 3(b)(2)
of Executive Order 12988 (February 5,
1996).
I. Executive Order 13045 (Protection of
Children)
This rulemaking does not concern an
environmental risk to health or safety
that may disproportionately affect
children under Executive Order 13045
(April 21, 1997).
J. Executive Order 12630 (Taking of
Private Property)
This rulemaking will not affect a
taking of private property or otherwise
have taking implications under
Executive Order 12630 (March 15,
1988).
K. Congressional Review Act
Under the Congressional Review Act
provisions of the Small Business
Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of
1996 (5 U.S.C. 801 et seq.), prior to
issuing any final rule, the USPTO will
submit a report containing the final rule
and other required information to the
United States Senate, the United States
House of Representatives, and the
Comptroller General of the Government
Accountability Office. The changes
proposed in this rulemaking are not
expected to result in an annual effect on
the economy of $100 million or more; a
major increase in costs or prices; or
significant adverse effects on
competition, employment, investment,
productivity, innovation, or the ability
of United States-based enterprises to
compete with foreign-based enterprises
in domestic and export markets.
Therefore, this rulemaking is not
expected to result in a ‘‘major rule’’ as
defined in 5 U.S.C. 804(2).
L. Unfunded Mandates Reform Act of
1995
The changes proposed in this
rulemaking do not involve a Federal
intergovernmental mandate that will
result in the expenditure by State, local,
and Tribal governments, in the
aggregate, of $100 million (as adjusted)
or more in any one year, or a Federal
private sector mandate that will result
in the expenditure by the private sector
of $100 million (as adjusted) or more in
any one year, and will not significantly
or uniquely affect small governments.
Therefore, no actions are necessary
under the provisions of the Unfunded
Mandates Reform Act of 1995. See 2
U.S.C. 1501 et seq.
M. National Environmental Policy Act of
1969
This rulemaking will not have any
effect on the quality of the environment
and is thus categorically excluded from
review under the National
Environmental Policy Act of 1969. See
42 U.S.C. 4321 et seq.
N. National Technology Transfer and
Advancement Act of 1995
The requirements of section 12(d) of
the National Technology Transfer and
Advancement Act of 1995 (15 U.S.C.
272 note) are not applicable because this
rulemaking does not contain provisions
that involve the use of technical
standards.
O. Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
The Paperwork Reduction Act of 1995
(44 U.S.C. 3501 et seq.) (PRA) requires
that the USPTO consider the impact of
paperwork and other information
collection burdens imposed on the
public. This rulemaking involves
information collection requirements that
are subject to review and approval by
the Office of Management and Budget
(OMB) under the Paperwork Reduction
Act.
This proposed rulemaking impacts
the rules of practice pertaining to
terminal disclaimers. The general
provisions pertaining to terminal
disclaimers have been reviewed and
approved by the OMB under OMB
control number 0651–0031 and are
accounted for under the line item
Statutory Disclaimers (including
terminal disclaimers) as contained in
0651–0031. In a 60-day notice published
January 29, 2024 (89 FR 5500), for the
renewal of 0651–0031, the USPTO
provided estimates for this line item and
those estimates appear below.
Under this proposed rulemaking, the
USPTO proposes to modify terminal
disclaimers to include the additional
agreement as discussed in the preamble.
The USPTO estimates that
approximately 20% of applicants and
patent owners that are considering the
filing of a terminal disclaimer to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting will opt
not to file a terminal disclaimer
containing the proposed agreement, at
least during an initial period after the
effective date of the final rule.
Therefore, the USPTO proposed
estimates below take into account the
anticipated 20% reduction in terminal
disclaimer filings.
The USPTO will be accounting for
this impact in a proposed new
information collection that has been
submitted to the OMB. The proposed
new information collection will reflect
an estimated total decrease of 9,990
respondents, 2,498 burden hours and
$1,698,300 in filing fees with respect to
terminal disclaimers, because some
applicants and patent owners will
choose not to file a terminal disclaimer
with the proposed agreement. A
summary of the change in burden to
terminal disclaimers follows. The
proposed new information collection
will be available at the OMB’s
Information Collection Review website
(www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain).
Estimated Data Published in the 60-
day Notice for 0651–0031 (January 29,
2024):
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00011 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
40448 Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules
Estimated number of annual
respondents for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers):
49,950.
Estimated number of annual
responses for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers):
49,950.
Estimated total annual respondent
burden hours for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers):
12,488.
Estimated total annual respondent
hourly cost burden for statutory
disclaimers (including terminal
disclaimers): $5,582,136.
Estimated total annual respondent
non-hourly cost burden for statutory
disclaimers (including terminal
disclaimers): $8,491,500 in the form of
filing fees.
Proposed New Information Collection
Associated with RIN 0651–AD76:
OMB control number: 0651–NEW.
Title of collection: Terminal
disclaimers.
Needs and uses: The changes under
proposed § 1.321 on the filing of
terminal disclaimers would be used by
an owner (in whole or in part) of a
patent or a patent to be granted to agree
that the patent in which the terminal
disclaimer is filed, or any patent granted
on an application in which a terminal
disclaimer is filed, will be enforceable
only if the patent is not tied and has
never been tied directly or indirectly to
a patent by one or more terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting in which: any claim
has been finally held unpatentable or
invalid as anticipated or obvious by a
Federal court in a civil action or by the
USPTO, and all appeal rights have been
exhausted; or a statutory disclaimer of a
claim is filed after any challenge based
on anticipation or obviousness to that
claim has been made.
The changes would be used by the
USPTO to ensure it does not issue a
patent to a common owner or inventor
with a claim that conflicts with a claim
of a second patent, unless the terminal
disclaimer includes the additional
agreement that the patent with the
terminal disclaimer will not be enforced
if any claim of the second patent is
invalidated by prior art.
The changes would be used by the
public to focus on addressing the
validity of the claims of a single patent
to resolve a dispute where there are
multiple patents tied by terminal
disclaimers.
Impacted forms in this information
collection:
• PTO/AIA/25 (Terminal Disclaimer to
Obviate a Provisional Double
Patenting Rejection Over a Pending
‘‘Reference’’ Application)
• PTO/SB/25 (Terminal Disclaimer to
Obviate a Provisional Double
Patenting Rejection over a Pending
Second Application)
• PTO/SB/25a (Terminal Disclaimer in
a Patent or Proceeding in view of an
Application)
• PTO/AIA/26 (Terminal Disclaimer to
Obviate a Double Patenting Rejection
Over a ‘‘Prior’’ Patent)
• PTO/SB/26 (Terminal Disclaimer to
Obviate a Double Patenting Rejection
over a Prior Patent)
• PTO/SB/26a (Terminal Disclaimer in
a Patent or Proceeding in view of
Another Patent)
• PTO/AIA/63 (Terminal Disclaimer to
Accompany Petition under 37 CFR
1.137 in a Design Application Filed
on or after September 16, 2012)
• PTO/SB/63 (Terminal Disclosure to
Accompany Petition)
Type of review: New.
Affected public: Private Sector.
Respondent’s Obligation: Required to
obtain or retain benefits.
Frequency: On occasion.
Estimated number of annual
respondents for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers):
39,960.
Estimated number of annual
responses for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers):
39,960.
Estimated total annual respondent
burden hours for statutory disclaimers
(including terminal disclaimers): 9,990.
Estimated total annual respondent
hourly cost burden for statutory
disclaimers (including terminal
disclaimers): $4,465,530.
Estimated total annual respondent
non-hourly cost burden for statutory
disclaimers (including terminal
disclaimers): $6,793,200 in the form of
filing fees.
The USPTO is soliciting public
comments to:
(a) evaluate whether the collection of
information is necessary for the proper
performance of the functions of the
Agency, including whether the
information will have practical utility;
(b) evaluate the accuracy of the
Agency’s estimate of the burden of the
proposed collection of information;
(c) enhance the quality, utility, and
clarity of the information to be
collected; and
(d) minimize the burden of the
collection of information on those who
are to respond, including through the
use of appropriate automated,
electronic, mechanical, or other
technological collection techniques or
other forms of information technology,
e.g., permitting the electronic
submission of responses.
Please submit comments on this new
collection of information at
www.reginfo.gov/public/do/PRAMain.
Find this particular information
collection by selecting ‘‘Currently under
Review’’ or by using the search function
and entering the title of the collection.
Please send a copy of your comments to
the USPTO using the method described
under ADDRESSES at the beginning of
this document.
All comments submitted in response
to this proposed rulemaking are a matter
of public record. The USPTO will
include or summarize the comments
received in the request to the OMB to
approve the new information collection
requirements.
Notwithstanding any other provision
of law, no person is required to respond
to nor shall a person be subject to a
penalty for failure to comply with a
collection of information subject to the
requirements of the PRA unless that
collection of information displays a
currently valid OMB control number.
P. E-Government Act Compliance
The USPTO is committed to
compliance with the E-Government Act
to promote the use of the internet and
other information technologies, to
provide increased opportunities for
citizen access to Government
information and services, and for other
purposes.
List of Subjects in 37 CFR Part 1
Administrative practice and
procedure, Biologics, Courts, Freedom
of information, Inventions and patents,
Reporting and recordkeeping
requirements, Small businesses.
For the reasons stated in the
preamble, the USPTO proposes to
amend 37 CFR part 1 as follows:
PART 1—RULES OF PRACTICE IN
PATENT CASES
■ 1. The authority citation for 37 CFR
part 1 continues to read as follows:
Authority: 35 U.S.C. 2(b)(2), unless
otherwise noted.
■ 2. Revise § 1.321 to read as follows:
§ 1.321 Statutory disclaimers, including
terminal disclaimers.
(a) A patentee owning the whole or
any sectional interest in a patent may
disclaim any complete claim or claims
in a patent. In like manner any patentee
may disclaim or dedicate to the public
the entire term, or any terminal part of
the term, of the patent granted. Such
disclaimer is binding upon the
VerDate Sep<11>2014 18:55 May 09, 2024 Jkt 262001 PO 00000 Frm 00012 Fmt 4702 Sfmt 4702 E:\FR\FM\10MYP1.SGM 10MYP1
khammond on DSKJM1Z7X2PROD with PROPOSALS
Federal Register / Vol. 89, No. 92 / Friday, May 10, 2024 / Proposed Rules 40449
disclaimant and its successors or
assigns. A notice of the disclaimer is
published in the Official Gazette and
attached to the printed copies of the
specification. The disclaimer, to be
recorded in the Patent and Trademark
Office, must:
(1) Be signed by the patentee, or an
attorney or agent of record;
(2) Identify the patent and complete
claim or claims, or term being
disclaimed. A disclaimer which is not a
disclaimer of a complete claim or
claims, or term will be refused
recordation;
(3) State the present extent of the
disclaimant’s ownership interest in the
patent; and
(4) Be accompanied by the fee set
forth in § 1.20(d).
(b) An applicant may disclaim or
dedicate to the public the entire term, or
any terminal part of the term, of a patent
to be granted. Such terminal disclaimer
is binding upon the disclaimant and its
successors or assigns. The terminal
disclaimer, to be recorded in the Patent
and Trademark Office, must:
(1)(i) For patent applications filed
under 35 U.S.C. 111(a) or 363 on or after
September 16, 2012, be signed by the
applicant or an attorney or agent of
record; or
(ii) For patent applications filed under
35 U.S.C. 111(a) or 363 before
September 16, 2012, be signed:
(A) By the applicant;
(B) If there is an assignee of record of
an undivided part interest, by the
applicant and such assignee;
(C) If there is an assignee of record of
the entire interest, by such assignee; or
(D) By an attorney or agent of record;
(2) Specify the portion of the term of
the patent being disclaimed;
(3) State the present extent of the
disclaimant’s ownership interest in the
patent to be granted; and
(4) Be accompanied by the fee set
forth in § 1.20(d).
(c) Except as provided for in
paragraph (d) of this section, a terminal
disclaimer, when filed in a patent, a
reexamination proceeding, or a patent
application to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting of a claimed invention
based on a reference patent or
application, must:
(1) Comply with the provisions of
paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this
section;
(2) Be signed in accordance with
paragraph (b)(1) of this section if filed
in a patent application (the subject
application) or in accordance with
paragraph (a)(1) of this section if filed in
a patent or in a reexamination
proceeding (the subject patent); and
(3) Include a provision agreeing that
the subject patent or any patent granted
on the subject application shall be
enforceable:
(i) Only for and during such period
that the subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application is
commonly owned with the reference
patent or any patent granted on the
reference application; and
(ii) Only if the subject patent or any
patent granted on the subject
application is not tied and has never
been tied directly or indirectly to a
patent by one or more terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting in which:
(A) A claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid under 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 in a Federal court in a civil
action or at the USPTO, and all appeal
rights have been exhausted; or
(B) A statutory disclaimer of a claim
is filed after any challenge based on 35
U.S.C. 102 or 103 to that claim has been
made.
(d) A terminal disclaimer, when filed
in a patent, a reexamination proceeding,
or a patent application to obviate
nonstatutory double patenting of a
claimed invention based on a reference
patent or application that is not
commonly owned but was disqualified
as prior art as set forth in either
§ 1.104(c)(4)(ii) or (c)(5)(ii) as the result
of activities undertaken within the
scope of a joint research agreement,
must:
(1) Comply with the provisions of
paragraphs (b)(2) through (4) of this
section;
(2) Be signed in accordance with
paragraph (b)(1) of this section if filed
in a patent application (the subject
application) or be signed in accordance
with paragraph (a)(1) of this section if
filed in a patent or in a reexamination
proceeding (the subject patent); and
(3) Include a provision waiving the
right to separately enforce the subject
patent or any patent granted on the
subject application and the reference
patent or any patent granted on the
reference application, and agreeing that
the subject patent or any patent granted
on the subject application shall be
enforceable:
(i) Only for and during such period
that the subject patent or any patent
granted on the subject application and
the reference patent or any patent
granted on the reference application are
not separately enforced; and
(ii) Only if the subject patent or any
patent granted on the subject
application is not tied and has never
been tied directly or indirectly to a
patent by one or more terminal
disclaimers filed to obviate nonstatutory
double patenting in which:
(A) A claim has been finally held
unpatentable or invalid under 35 U.S.C.
102 or 103 in a Federal court in a civil
action or at the USPTO, and all appeal
rights have been exhausted; or
(B) A statutory disclaimer of a claim
is filed after any challenge based on 35
U.S.C. 102 or 103 to that claim has been
made.
Katherine K. Vidal,
Under Secretary of Commerce for Intellectual
Property and Director of the United States
Patent and Trademark Office.
[FR Doc. 2024–10166 Filed 5–9–24; 8:45 am]
BILLING CODE 3510–16–P